Wolfsberg Group -- Correspondent Banking Due Diligence Questionnaire (CBDDQ) Guidance v2.0 (2023)
Source: https://db.wolfsberg-group.org/assets/09bafec3-4b77-428b-9113-f4203d290a2f/EN_CBDDQ%20Guidance%20(2023).pdf


========== CBDDQ Guidance ==========

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023 Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.01  
The Wolfsberg Group 
Correspondent Banking Due Diligence 
Questionnaire (CBDDQ) Guidance 
February 2023 
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS), the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures (CPMI), the Financial 
Action Task Force (FATF) and The Financial Stability Board (FSB) have recognised the Correspondent Banking Due Diligence 
Questionnaire (CBDDQ) as being ‘one of the industry initiatives that will help to address the decline in the number of correspondent 
banking relationships by facilitating due diligence processes. 
This document aims to support the usage of the CBDDQ by providing guidance on responses to questions as well as an understanding 
of underlying risks of Correspondent and Respondent banking activities, and what steps a Respondent can take to enhance its controls 
to meet current industry standards. In all responses, the Respondent should be transparent and note at the end of each section any 
additional information that will help the Correspondent understand the context of the responses. Open and direct communication 
between parties will assist to build a solid working relationship. A separate CBDDQ should be completed for each legal Entity. 
This guidance covers the questions that the Wolfsberg Group believes would benefit most from additional background (so not all 
questions are covered) and is to be used alongside all other published CBDDQ material, available at the Wolfsberg Group webpage 
https://www.wolfsberg-principles.com/wolfsbergcb. This guidance is based on version 1.4 of the CBDDQ.  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023 Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.02  
1. Entity & Ownership
Question 1 Full Legal Name Guidance 
The Full Legal Name is also referred to as company name. Your Entity’s full legal name is vital to ensure 
that the Correspondent Banking risk assessment is being performed on the correct party. 
Points for Consideration 
The full name must match the name in the Correspondent Bank’s records and reflect the legal Entity 
that is completing the questionnaire.  
Question 2 Append a list of foreign  
branches which are covered 
by this questionnaire 
Guidance 
A list of your Legal Entity’s foreign branches should be appended, unless there is a branch which has 
different business activities/customers or does not follow the same Financial Crime Compliance (FCC) 
programme. List all branches acting as responding entities, including full name an d country of 
location. If the business model is the same or substantially similar in each  country where your Entity 
has branches, one CBDDQ will suffice for all. If not, any differences should be noted, explaining what 
they are.  
Points for Consideration 
All responses must be provided at the Legal Entity level, in other words the questionnaire must be 
answered covering all branches but should not cover subsidiaries. If a response differs for one of your 
branches, this needs to be highlighted and details explaining the difference added at the end of each 
subsection. While regulatory and legal requirements vary across jurisdictions, generally requirements 
exist to demonstrate identification/ verification, due diligence and Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD), 
where applicable, are being applied to the correct legal Entity. 
If any of the branches’ business activity (products offered, customer base, etc.) or FCC control 
programme is significantly different than its head office, a separate questionnaire must be completed 
for that branch. 
Question 3 Full Legal (Registered) 
Address 
Guidance 
Full Legal (Registered) address for Legal Entities , also known as address of incorporation,  should be 
provided. 
Points for Consideration 
Different jurisdictions present a different level of potential Financial Crime (FC) risk, hence the 
importance of understanding the geographic risks posed by the location of the registered and primary 
business address(es). Consider if the jurisdiction has any FC vulnerabilities and how controls have been 
implemented to address them. The risk of the jurisdiction in which the Entity is located also has a 
bearing on the risks of the banking activity in that jurisdiction. For further information, refer to the  
FATF Mutual Evaluations on jurisdictions that present FC weaknesses and the Wolfsberg Group 
Country Risk Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs). 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          3  
Question 4
  
Full Primary Business Address 
(if different from above) 
Guidance 
Full Primary Business Address is the address where your Entity is primarily physically located (similar 
to principal business address or address of residence). 
Question 5 Date of Entity incorporation/ 
establishment 
Guidance 
Provide the date of incorporation of your Entity. If the full date is not available, provide the year and 
explain why the full date is not available. 
Points for Consideration 
As with other types of legal entities, the length of time the legal Entity has been in existence could have 
a bearing on risk. Entities that have been in existence longer are likely to have a larger public footprint 
and longer history, enabling the Correspondent to obtain more information and conduct a more 
complete risk analysis. If your Entity was recently established, consider how it can demonstrate to the 
Correspondent that it has the necessary knowledge of its customer base and risks such that controls 
are implemented in an effective manner. 
Question 6 Select type of ownership and  
append an Ownership chart if  
available 
Guidance 
You should provide the type of ownership for your Entity. The most commonly encountered 
ownership structures are included in the drop down. If your Entity’s ownership structure is not 
represented in the drop down, provi de the relevant information under Question 18 so  that the 
Correspondent can understand the set up. 
Points for Consideration 
Different types of ownership structures may present different FC risks. Consider if the Entity’s 
ownership structure poses risks related to money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions, bribery 
and corruption, tax evasion, fraud and/or has been the subject of adverse media and what steps, 
additional information or additional controls can support the Correspondent’s assessment of your 
Entity’s organisation. It is important for the Correspondent to understand your corporate structure in 
order to assess risk. For this reason, as much relevant detail as possible describing the ownership 
structure is desirable. 
Some jurisdictions make the determination of ownership (especially publicly traded vs. privately held) 
part of their regulatory due diligence requirements. Generally speaking, more transparency is linked 
to less risk, while opaque ownership structures would present higher risk. 
Question 6 
a 
Publicly Traded (25% of shares 
publicly traded) 
Guidance 
An Entity is publicly traded if 25% or more of its ordinary shares or common stock are listed on a stock 
exchange. 
Question 6 
a1 
If Y, indicate the exchange 
traded on and ticker symbol 
Guidance 
Provide the full names of all the stock exchanges where your Entity’s ordinary shares/common stock 
are listed along with the unique ID used by each stock exchange to identify the security. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          4  
  Points for Consideration 
Different exchanges will have different requirements for reporting and transparency. The jurisdiction 
of these exchanges plays a large role in whether they have high, more stringent standards, or lesser 
requirements. The quality of oversight exercised by the stock exchange may be viewed as a risk 
mitigant.  
Question 6 
b 
Member Owned/Mutual Guidance 
Mutual Societies are organisations owned by their members and managed for their benefit, such as 
a building society, friendly society, credit union, registered society (including, co-operative societies, 
industrial and provident societies, community benefit societies, which are registered legal entities 
and hold limited liability). 
Points for Consideration 
Dispersed ownership of an Entity can lead to lower risk by reducing the chances of a small number of 
individuals having substantial control of the Entity. Understanding the membership will be an 
important factor in the risk assessment performed by the Correspondent. 
Question 6 
c 
Government or state Owned 
by 25% or more  
Points for Consideration 
The Correspondent’s assessment of the jurisdictional commitment to FCC and related laws, rules and 
regulations will affect how it views government ownership. The manner in which the government 
exercises control over an organisation may also be a consideration, for example whether the 
government holds ownership only or has managerial/executive positions within the organisation. The 
types of services offered by your Entity could be presented as a potential mitigant, when/if these 
entities open a correspondent banking account for transactions on behalf of a government/state 
owned body/state agency, as opposed to commercial transactions for third party customers (i.e. 
Central Banks, treasury vs commercial payments). 
Question 6 
d 
Privately Owned Guidance 
If one of the previous types of ownership does not apply (as noted in Questions 6 a, b or c), select 
privately owned.  
Points for Consideration 
Privately Owned entities can present additional risk due to a potential lack of transparency. Some 
jurisdictions will require verification of parties with significant ownership and control. It is important 
for the Correspondent to understand and have transparency with respect to the ownership structure 
and individuals with significant ownership and control of your Entity. 
Question 6 
d1 
If Y, provide details of 
shareholders or Ultimate 
Beneficial Owners (UBOs) with 
a holding of 10% or more 
Guidance 
Provide immediate and ultimate shareholders (legal entities and natural persons) or UBOs, including 
full names and percentage of ownership. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          5  
  Points for Consideration  
Shareholders and UBOs may have direct influence over the operation and the FC control programme 
of an Entity and therefore, it is necessary for the Correspondent to understand who these parties are 
and to identify relevant information about them. UBOs may pose different levels of risk according to 
who they are, for example, whether these parties are Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs). While this 
may not be an adverse risk, the Correspondent may need to obtain additional information to assess 
the risk accurately. Refer to Wolfsberg Guidance on PEPs. 
UBOs who individually do not hold 10% or more but do when aggregated hold 10% or greater (family 
members, business partners, etc.) should be disclosed. Legal documentation to verify ownership 
information and beneficiaries of trusts and other legal arrangements should be provided. Remember 
to provide the necessary information with completeness and accuracy. 
To better understand the risks associated to Beneficial Ownership, refer to the FATF Guidance on 
Transparency and Beneficial Ownership. 
Question 7 % of the Entity’s total shares 
composed of bearer shares 
Guidance 
Are any share certificates of your Entity are issued in bearer form? In other words, is ownership is 
signified by possession of physical certificates issued to “bearer”? 
Points for Consideration  
Legal entities which have issued ownership shares in bearer format will present a higher risk, as 
ownership will belong to whoever is physically holding the share certificates. Legal entities with 
bearer shares can change legal ownership quite easily, with minimal-to-no controls. A crucial part of 
the Correspondent’s FC controls is based on knowing the customer, knowing who the bank is doing 
business with. When an Entity is organised with a high percentage of its ownership in bearer share 
format that might not be possible, as the UBO(s) can change from one day to the next. Therefore, if 
the Entity has bearer sharers that form part of the ownership structure, consider what controls are in 
place that may bring the Correspondent additional comfort, such as having the bearer shares in 
custody with a regulated financial services provider. Consider that the Correspondent will need to 
understand the current ownership, especially if the Correspondent is in a jurisdiction that requires 
specific due diligence on UBOs. Not all jurisdictions allow the creation of entities with the ability to 
issue bearer shares. Also, while an Entity might not currently have bearer shares issued, if the legal 
structure/formation documents allow for bearer shares to be issued, this may need to be explained 
to the Correspondent. 
Question 8 Does the Entity, or any of its 
branches, operate  under an 
Offshore Banking License 
(OBL)? 
Guidance 
OBL means a license to conduct banking activities which, as a condition of the license, prohibits the 
licensed Entity from serving the citizens, or using the local currency, of the country which issued the 
license. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          6  
  Points for Consideration 
A bank or bank branch with an OBL is prevented or restricted from doing business with the citizens of 
the country which issued its license and is also less likely to receive as close a level of scrutiny from 
the regulators in the country which issued its OBL. Further, in certain jurisdictions the process for 
obtaining an OBL is less stringent than the process for a regular license. A bank with an OBL will by 
definition draw most of its customers from outside its licensing jurisdiction which will give it a 
different risk profile to local. The combination of lighter regulation, less frequent oversight and an 
offshore customer base introduces a variety of additional risk elements that need to be evaluated 
thoroughly. Note that a bank that is part of a larger financial group may have some of its locations 
operating under OBLs and these may pose a lower level of risk than standalone banks with an OBL. If 
the Entity is a standalone bank with an offshore license they will need to provide extensive due 
diligence information to the Correspondent. If your Entity is affiliated with a major banking group that 
is subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight it will need to describe that oversight. Consider how 
controls may be demonstrated in relation to branches operating under an OBL, including how they 
are relevant to the specific additional risks the jurisdiction may pose. 
Question 8 
a 
If Y, provide the name of the 
relevant branch/es which 
operate under an OBL 
Guidance 
Include any branches or entities which operate under an OBL and country of registration and primary 
address. 
Question 9 Does the Bank have a Virtual 
Bank License or provide 
services only through online 
channels? 
Guidance 
A virtual banking license means a license to conduct banking activities without any physical premises. 
Offering banking services through online channels enables customers to conduct banking transactions 
without walking into a physical facility.  
Points for Consideration 
The greatest risk inherent in virtual banking institutions and on-line banking services lies in the 
potential anonymity of the parties conducting the transactions. Therefore, it is important to 
demonstrate that the Entity has implemented appropriate controls including Customer Due Diligence 
(CDD), record-keeping and monitoring and reporting.  
Question 
10 
Name of primary financial 
regulator/supervisory 
authority 
Guidance 
Indicate the regulator with primary responsibility for oversight of FCC. 
Points for Consideration 
If there is more than one primary regulator, provide all names as this will provide material information 
to the Correspondent to assess the oversight to which the Entity is subject. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          7  
Question 
11 
Provide Legal Entity Identifier 
(LEI) if available 
 
Guidance 
An LEI is a 20-character alpha numeric identifier that identifies distinct legal entities that engage in 
financial transactions. It is defined by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 17442. 
Question 
12 
Provide the full legal name of 
ultimate parent (if different 
from the Entity completing the 
DDQ) 
Guidance 
Provide the name of the natural or legal person that holds/controls majority voting power over the 
Entity. 
Question 
13 
Jurisdiction of licensing 
authority and regulator of 
ultimate parent 
Guidance 
If applicable, provide the country in which the primary financial regulator/supervisory authority of 
the ultimate parent is established. 
Points for Consideration 
The perceived effectiveness of the ultimate parent’s jurisdiction may impact how the Correspondent 
assesses risk. Refer to National Risk Assessments or FATF Mutual Evaluation Reports on jurisdictions 
that present FCC weaknesses and, where relevant, subsequent recommendations/action plan items.  
Question 
14 
Select the business areas  
applicable to the Entity 
Guidance 
This section refers to the areas of business offered by your Entity as the Respondent. Select all that 
apply. 
Points for Consideration 
The more complex your Entity’s business is, the more specific, tailored and robust controls will be 
expected. Consider where activities may pose higher risks and how your existing controls are able to 
mitigate them. Different types of business services provided will bring different FC risks associated with 
the activity and will require specific controls for each type of activity and product. 
Question 
14 k 
Other (please explain) Guidance 
Specify any other services which have not been covered in Questions 14 a-j above or provide any 
clarifications that may be required. 
Points for Consideration 
Consider the potential FC  risks the other types of activities may pose and be prepared to discuss 
and demonstrate your Entity’s  controls in place to mitigate such risks. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023 Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.08  
Question 
15 
Does the Entity have a 
significant (10% or more)  
portfolio of  non-resident 
customers or does it derive 
more than 10% of its revenue 
from non-resident customers? 
(Non-resident means  
customers primarily resident in 
a different  jurisdiction to  the 
location where bank services 
are provided) 
Guidance 
Indicate whether your Entity has non-resident customers whose combined revenue represents 10% 
or more of the total revenue or if the number of non-resident customers is 10% or more of the total 
customer base. 
Points for Consideration 
In general, conducting due diligence on customers resident in other jurisdictions is more involved and 
complex than on local entities as these may pose additional risks. A significant non-resident customer 
base can present risks if appropriate controls and processes do not exist. Make sure that the 
Correspondent is aware of the nature of this customer base and any particular characteristics of its 
activity. Entities which have a significant portion of their customers or revenues from non-resident 
customers could present higher risk. It will be important for the Correspondent to understand why a 
large number of customers or revenues are non-resident, and to achieve a comfort level that the 
controls in place are proportionate to mitigate the risks. 
Question 
15 a 
If Y, provide the top five  
countries where  the non- 
resident customers are 
located 
Guidance 
List the top five countries where the non-resident customers are located. 
Points for Consideration 
Based on the perceived level of effective implementation of international standards, certain 
jurisdictions will present higher risks from a FC risk perspective. The Correspondent might have 
internal policies or risk appetite statements related to certain countries and before providing 
correspondent banking services would need to ensure your customer base is in line with its risk 
appetite and policies. 
Question 
16 a 
Number of employees Guidance 
Include the number of full-time employees of the Entity and any applicable branches. The Entity 
should aim to include the most recent number available.  
Points for Consideration 
The number of employees provides a view of the size and scale of the Entity as an element of the 
Correspondent’s risk assessment. 
Question 
16 b 
Total Assets Guidance 
Provide the Total Assets per the Entity’s latest audited balance sheet, including any applicable 
branches. The Entity should aim to include the most recent figure available.  
Points for Consideration 
Total assets provide a view of the size of the business as an element of the Correspondent’s risk 
assessment. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          9  
2. Products and Services 
Question 
19 
Does the Entity offer the 
following products and  
services: 
Guidance 
For each of the products and services mentioned below, indicate whether your Entity offers these 
products and services directly to their customers. Do not include products or services where the Entity 
acts only as an Introducer or Intermediary. 
Points for Consideration 
The products in this section are generally identified and recognised as presenting higher FC risks. If your 
Entity offers these products to its customers, then this is relevant to the Correspondent in determining 
the risk that the relationship may pose. The extent and effectiveness of the controls that are in place 
to mitigate the risks of these activities will be crucial, so be upfront with additional information when 
having a bi-lateral discussion. High risk does not necessarily imply an element for concern, but it does 
mean that the Entity must have adequate controls in place to mitigate the risks which products and 
services may pose.  
Question 
19 a 
Correspondent Banking Guidance 
If the Entity answers ‘NO’ the Questionnaire remains relevant as the Entity may be obtaining 
correspondent banking services as a Respondent, rather than providing Correspondent Banking 
services to other Financial Institutions (FIs). Go to Question 19 b onwards. 
For further information on Correspondent Banking, refer to the definition in the CBDDQ Glossary and 
the Wolfsberg Correspondent Banking Principles. 
The Wolfsberg Group is aware that there are different definitions of Correspondent Banking. The 
objective of the CBDDQ is to provide a consistent set of questions to be used during Correspondent 
Banking due diligence and Risk Assessments to identify potential FC risks. If in doubt, The Wolfsberg 
Group recommends using the CBDDQ. 
Points for Consideration 
When correspondent banking services are provided to a Respondent it opens the Correspondent to 
a number of risks, as the services provided include the flow of funds of another FI through the 
Correspondent’s accounts. Cross border correspondent banking introduces risks such as: 
jurisdictional risk (that the Correspondent and their Respondent customers are subject to different 
regulatory requirements), transparency risk (due to the added numbers of parties), and potential 
downstream or nested risk, among others. See Question 19 a1b below for more detail on 
downstream/nesting in Correspondent Banking Entity . 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023 Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.010  
Question 
19 a1a 
Does the Entity offer 
Correspondent Banking 
services to domestic banks? 
Guidance 
Indicate whether you Entity provides correspondent banking services to banks located in the same 
jurisdiction as the Entity. 
Points for Consideration 
The risk of activity flowing to the Correspondent Bank from your Entity must be mitigated and 
managed by your controls. If your Entity provides Correspondent Banking services to other FIs, and 
that activity flows through the Correspondent account, the risk of such activity is initially managed by 
the Respondent FI customers’ controls and then by you. Since the Correspondent Bank‘s due diligence 
was performed on you, rather than on your underlying FI customer (Know Your Customer (KYC) rather 
than Know Your Customer’s Customer (KYCC)), it is important for the Correspondent Bank to 
understand whether the activity that flows through the account is from you, your FI customer(s) or 
your customer’s customer. 
Question 
19 a1b 
Does the Entity allow 
domestic bank customers to 
provide downstream 
relationships? 
Guidance 
Where you provide correspondent banking services to FIs, do you allow those FIs to provide 
correspondent banking to other FIs and which flow through the Entity? 
A downstream correspondent (often referred to as “nested”) relationship occurs when a Respondent 
Bank receives correspondent banking services from a Correspondent and itself provides 
correspondent banking services to other FIs in the account it maintains with its Correspondent. 
Points for Consideration 
If your Entity offers correspondent banking services to domestic FI customers, do you permit those 
FIs to offer correspondent banking services themselves? If so, you should be prepared to discuss 
additional controls in place for this activity. The risk in this activity is that the Correspondent would 
be at least one step further removed from the organisation that has conducted due diligence on the 
transacting party, and this can increase the risk of the activity, due to lack of visibility of the parties 
involved and the potential risks associated to them. Consider this exposure when providing this 
service and make it clear to the Correspondent when asked.  
Question 
19 a1c 
Does the Entity have processes 
and procedures in place to  
identify downstream  
relationships with domestic 
banks? 
Points for Consideration 
The risk associated with downstream relationships is that the Correspondent Bank is further removed 
from the underlying customer relationship. In terms of downstream  activity, the Correspondent is 
further dependent on the controls of the downstream bank. In this and in other risk areas, if suitable 
controls are not in place, then there may be higher risk activity flowing through the accounts than 
initially expected. This poses potential additional FC risks both for you and for the Correspondent. 
Where higher risk activity is taking place without having been identified, the control environment may 
not be as robust as required.  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          11  
Question 
19 a1d 
Does the Entity offer 
correspondent banking 
services to foreign banks? 
Guidance 
Indicate whether your Entity provides  correspondent banking services to banks outside the 
jurisdiction of the Entity.  
Points for Consideration 
This is a similar type of activity to that set out in Question 19 a1a. If your customers are located in 
different jurisdictions, they may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements as you and may 
thus pose a different level of risk. Further, cross border correspondent banking introduces 
jurisdictional risk (that the Foreign Bank’s customers are subject to different regulatory requirements 
than the Respondent ), transparency risk (due to added numbers of parties) and potential 
downstream/nested risk for the Correspondent. Additionally, a different jurisdiction may have 
different business practices and pose different FC risks. 
Question 
19 a1e 
Does the Entity allow 
downstream relationships 
with foreign banks? 
Points for Consideration 
As mentioned under Question 19 a1b, the risk in this activity is that the Correspondent would be at least 
one step further removed from the organisation that it has conducted due diligence on, the transacting 
party, and this can increase the risk of the activity, due to lack of visibility of the parties involved and 
the potential risks associated to them. Additionally, when the activity is performed with foreign banks, 
they may be subject to a different regulatory environment, which could be less robust than the 
Respondent’s and may also have different business practice s in their  jurisdiction. Consider the 
exposure when providing this service and make it clear to the Correspondent when asked.  
Question 
19 a1f 
Does the Entity have processes 
and procedures in  place to 
identify downstream 
relationships with foreign 
banks? 
Points for Consideration 
As mentioned under Question 19 a1c, the risk associated with downstream relationships is that the 
Correspondent Bank is further removed from the underlying customer relationship. In instances of 
downstream activity, a bank is further dependent on the controls of the downstream bank. When the 
Respondent’s customer is based in another jurisdiction, the risk exposure of the Correspondent Bank 
may change, due to potential lower regulatory requirements and different business practices. Lack of 
processes to identify and manage this type of relationship would generate an unknown level of risk 
which most Correspondent Banks would not be able to accept.  
Downstream activity also raises the question of ‘why’ and there should be a reasonable explanation 
of why such relationships exist. There are a number of reasons for such activity, such as that the 
Respondent’s FI customer is too small or has too low levels of activity to justify a direct relationship. 
However, the Correspondent will need to make its own assessment of the control environment to 
manage downstream activities. Ensure the responses demonstrate effective processes to identify and 
manage such relationships, during the tenure of the relationship. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023 Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.012  
Question 
19 a1g 
Does the Entity offer 
correspondent banking 
services to regulated  Money 
Services Businesses 
(MSBs)/Money Value Transfer 
Services (MVTSs)? 
Points for Consideration 
Money Service Business (MSBs) and Money or Value Transfer Services (MVTS) act as intermediaries 
between their customers/counterparties, as the underlying transactors, and the Respondent. MSBs 
and MVTS may be subject to different regulatory requirements and may thus pose a different level 
of risk than the Respondent. It is important for you as the Respondent to understand the 
appropriateness of the MSBs’/MVTS’ control environment including the level of payment transparency 
before the activity is routed to the Correspondent. 
What measures have been taken to understand the FCC programmes of the MSB/MVTS customers? 
How do you ensure that you (and your Correspondent) have adequate understanding of, and visibility 
into, the  names of  the originators and  beneficiaries of payment instructions ? Provide details 
regarding steps taken to gain comfort in providing services to these entities, such as additional 
controls, training and monitoring. 
Question 
19 a1h 
Does the Entity allow 
downstream relationships 
with MSBs, MVTSs, or Payment 
Service Providers (PSPs)? 
Points for Consideration 
This is a similar type of activity to that set out in Questions 19 a1a and 19 a1b. Consider the risk the 
MSB/MVTS/PSP customers poses when they have MSB/MVTS/PSP customers and how appropriate 
controls have been implemented in order to manage the risk. The controls should include an 
assessment of the MSB /MVTS/PSP controls to assess their downstream customer risk and their 
regulatory environment. The same risk your Entity had to understand and manage, will become part 
of the risks to which the Correspondent will be exposed. The  risk of activity flowing to the 
Correspondent Bank from the MSBs/MVTS/PSP customers must be mitigated and managed by your 
controls. 
Question 
19 a1i 
Does the Entity have processes 
and procedures in  place to  
identify downstream 
relationships with 
MSBs/MVTSs/PSPs? 
Points for Consideration 
As mentioned in Question 19 a1f, a lack of processes to identify and manage this type of relationship 
would generate an unknown level of risk which most Correspondent Banks would not be able to 
accept. MSBs and MVTSs pose additional risk for the Correspondent and may prove to be too risky 
for some. 
Ensure you can  demonstrate effective processes to identify and manage such relationships, in a 
sustainable manner. An upfront and clear disclosure of such relationships will aid in the 
Correspondent understanding your Entity’s business, including the rationale for using Correspondent 
accounts for MSB/MVTS relationships. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          13  
Question 
19 b 
Cross-Border Bulk Cash 
Delivery 
Points for Consideration 
When criminal activity generates large quantities of physical cash, criminals need to find ways to place 
that cash into the banking system. Banks that provide bulk cash services (especially when buying 
cash), need to understand the source of that cash in order to ensure that it does not stem from the 
proceeds of crime (e.g. drug sales or smuggling). If the Respondent  offers cross border bulk cash 
services and some, or all, of the settlement activity flows through the Correspondent, the 
Correspondent may ask for a description  of the  controls around this business and require an 
explanation of the rationale for specific transactions. 
Question 
19c 
Cross-Border Remittances Points for Consideration 
Cross border remittances can be used for legitimate and illegitimate purposes. Because cross border 
volumes are so large, it can be hard to identify the ‘good’ from the ‘bad’. Thus, it  is important to 
understand, and when asked by the Correspondent, be able to provide the rationale for such activity 
and the appropriate controls in place. Understanding the purpose of the payment, the ability to verify 
the source of funds, appropriate monitoring scenarios are examples of controls that would help the 
Correspondent understand the nature of risks associated with the cross-border activities. 
Question 
19 d 
Domestic Bulk Cash Delivery Points for Consideration 
Similar risks to cross border cash activity, attention must be paid to where in the country cash is 
being generated/used and why. 
Question 
19 e 
Hold Mail Points for Consideration 
If a customer asks that the bank hold their mail rather than send it out to them in the normal way, it 
can limit a bank’s ability to get in touch with that customer. It also raises questions about why such 
special treatment is necessary. It can be an indication of a desire to limit transparency and circumvent 
existing controls. 
Question 
19 f 
International Cash Letter Points for Consideration 
Cash Letter allows a respondent to send bulk cheques to its Correspondent for clearing. As controls 
around wire transfers have steadily increased, the bulk clearing of physical cheques continues to 
pose risks due, in part, to the inherently manual processes and the difficulties in identifying the 
depositor of the cheques and monitoring the activity effectively. In the case of correspondent banks, 
it is not possible for the clearing bank to know every depository customer of the correspondent bank 
that may present a check for deposit. Some red flags  relating  to Cash letter items have been seen 
with blank payee lines, cheques  bearing stamps or codes indicating possible use by third parties, 
multiple sequentially-numbers cheques to the same payee and in repetitive amounts. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          14  
Question 
19 g 
 
Low Price Securities 
 
Points for Consideration 
Low priced securities (typically under five US Dollar a share and often referred to as ‘penny stocks’) 
tend to experience higher price volatility than other securities and have been exploited by criminals 
in ‘pump and dump’ schemes to drive up the price of the security by hyping its potential, and then 
selling at a higher price, leaving investors with losses. Banks that provide securities clearing and 
custody services need to be alert to the risks posed by increases in trading of such securities to ensure 
that they are not unwittingly moving money connected to securities fraud. 
Question 
19 h 
Payable Through Accounts Points for Consideration 
A payable through account involves a Respondent Bank opening an account with a Correspondent 
and then providing its customers with cheque books or other means of drawing directly on the 
respondent’s account with the Correspondent. The risk is that the Respondent is allowing its customer 
direct access to their account with the Correspondent, an arrangement which is less transparent and 
imposes heightened risk. This heightened risk is a result of the Respondent not having direct oversight 
of the transactions and poses risk to the Correspondent who does full transparency into the true 
originator. This direct access differs from downstream activity where the Respondent are routing the 
transaction to the Correspondent. For further information, refer to FATF Recommendation 13.  
Question 
19 i 
Payment Services to non -bank 
entities who may then offer 
third party payment services 
to their customers 
Points for Consideration 
Providing payment services to non-bank entities, such as those listed in Questions 19 i2-i4, can 
present additional risk especially if they act as intermediaries on behalf of their underlying customers. 
It is important for you as the Respondent to understand the appropriateness of the entities’ control 
environment including the level of payment transparency before the activity is routed to the 
Correspondent.  
Question 
19 j 
Private Banking  Points for Consideration 
Private banking is generally viewed as posing potentially higher levels of FC risks due to the larger 
value of transactions performed on behalf of individuals and the potential for such wealth or 
transactional funds to have been obtained by illicit means. Consider the controls you have in place 
to understand and monitor the source of funds and wealth of Private Banking customers, including 
appropriate and effective controls to mitigate the risks of this activity. Specify whether the customer 
base is solely domestic (in same jurisdiction as branch offering service) or whether the customer base 
is outside that jurisdiction.  
For more information, refer to the Wolfsberg AML Principles for Private Banking.   
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023 Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.015  
Question 
19 k 
Remote Deposit Capture 
(RDC) 
Points for Consideration 
Unlike the physical deposit of cheques, RDC allows the deposit of images via a scanner that is provided 
to the customer. Without appropriate controls on the location of the scanner, it is possible for deposits 
to be made from locations other than the customer’s offices and by parties other than the customer. 
Additionally, the use of RDC prevents the identification of physical red flags, such as instruments which 
are visibly altered or contaminated with criminal substances. Cross-border RDC poses higher risk than 
purely domestic activity. 
Question 
19 l 
Sponsoring Private Automated 
Teller Machines (ATMs) 
Points for Consideration 
ATMs that are not connected to a bank’s network pose potential FC risks, in that they could be used 
to recirculate cash generated from illicit activities. Appropriate controls should be in place to 
understand both the source and use of the cash flowing through ATMs. If such products are provided 
and funds generated from this activity will flow through the Correspondent’s account, it increases the 
FC risk.  
Question 
19 m 
Stored Value Instruments Points for Consideration 
There are a wide variety of stored value cards/instruments available, ranging from relatively low 
value cards/instruments that can be used at one merchant only to those that can be loaded or 
reloaded anywhere, including not necessarily via a bank account. Such activity poses increased FC 
risks to the Correspondent if the lack of traceability of funds opens this type of product to potential 
criminal activities. E-wallets can be susceptible to Transaction Laundering, digital evolution of money 
laundering, where undisclosed businesses use approved merchants’ payment credentials to process 
payments for unknown products and services, typically illicit or illegal. Activity may not be easy to 
detect because of potential complexity in the payment chain.  
Closed loop stored value instruments with low load values may pose minimal risk while network 
branded reloadable cards or e-wallets pose higher risks. Be prepared to explain the type of stored 
value instruments supported and the controls in place. If services are provided to E-wallet providers 
be prepared to explain how the controls related to the activity and how due diligence on these 
customers addresses the unique risks posed.  
For more information, refer to the Wolfsberg Guidance on Prepaid and Stored Value Cards. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          16  
Question 
19 n 
Trade Finance Points for Consideration 
Trade-Based Money Laundering (TBML) is viewed by FATF and regulatory authorities as posing higher 
risk for banks when providing trade finance products. Appropriate controls should be in place for 
managing such activity. Documentary Trade Finance is a challenging activity to monitor from an FCC 
point of view, as many elements of the transactions are paper based. Consider controls in relation to 
this specific product and explain to the Correspondent how such risks are addressed.  
For more information, refer to the Trade Finance Principles published by the Wolfsberg Group, the 
International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and  the Bankers Association for Finance and Trade (BAFT). 
Question 
19 o 
Virtual Assets  Points for Consideration 
This is a rapidly evolving space driven by bank and non-bank participants. An FI engaging as a virtual 
asset service provider (as an administrator, exchanger, technology company, custodian, or payment 
processor) is exposed to FC risks which materialise, at times, differently from the more traditional bank 
products. Non-bank participants may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements as banks 
which may increase FC risks. The primary risks associated with virtual or crypto currencies relate to 
customer identification, payment transparency (including pseudonymous names) and traceability.  As 
this is a space with on-going changes to the products, complexity of technologies, regulatory and 
industry appetite, it potentially increases FC risks further, as banks and FIs try to keep up with changes 
and what is expected from them. 
Jurisdictions have different approaches to this evolving topic. Some are supportive and have 
embraced the technology. Others have imposed restrictions and even prohibited the product. With 
that in mind, if this product is provided, the Correspondent will need to understand what controls are in 
place to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, manage FC risk and ensure transparency. 
The Correspondent will want to know the nature of the activity (i.e. virtual/crypto vs fiat), whether 
settlement of such activity takes place over the account with the Correspondent and understand the 
controls in place to mitigate specific FC risks associated to this product.  
For more information, refer to the FATF Guidance for a Risk-Based Approach to Virtual Currencies. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          17  
Question 
19 p 
For each of the following 
please state whether you offer 
the service to walk -in 
customers and if so, the 
applicable level of due 
diligence: 
Points for Consideration 
‘Walk-ins’ (i.e. someone who walks into your Entity and askes to make a transaction without 
establishing a relationship or opening an account) are not always subject to the same level of due 
diligence when compared to existing customers, so activity on their behalf may not have the same 
level of controls as the rest of the customer base. The possibility of no or little due diligence 
performed on such customers is one of the key sources of FC risk, limiting the ability to monitor, 
screen and understand this type of activity. If services to ‘walk-ins’ are offered, consider the risks 
inherent to those services and the controls in place to mitigate them. If asked by the Correspondent, 
such controls must be demonstrated in a sustainable manner, including the rationale for providing 
this service and how to address regulatory compliance requirements. 
Question 
19 q 
Other high-risk products and 
services identified by  the 
Entity (please specify) 
Points for Consideration 
Provide details of any other higher risk products that may impact the risk of activity flowing through the 
Correspondent. 
3. Anti-Money Laundering (AML), Counter-Terrorist Financing ( CTF) & Sanctions Programme 
Question 
22 
Does the Entity have a 
programme that sets 
minimum AML, CTF and  
Sanctions standards regarding 
the following components: 
Points for Consideration 
A clearly defined and documented FC programme is the cornerstone of overall FC controls for an 
organisation. The programme needs to be documented and include all programme elements, clearly 
defining the scope in terms of which organisational entities and business units it applies to. Without 
a clearly defined and documented FC programme, it will not be possible to ensure that controls and 
associated procedures are implemented or that internal staff or third parties are aware of the 
standards that apply.  
Question 
22 a 
Appointed Officer with 
sufficient 
experience/expertise 
Guidance 
“Sufficient experience/expertise” of the Appointed Officer is based on local regulatory expectations 
and industry standards in the jurisdiction where the Entity is based. Consider the type of compliance 
roles previously undertaken and length of time that the individual has worked in the financial services 
industry. Your Entity may have appointed the same person as both the FC and Sanctions Officer or 
have a person for each role. 
Points for Consideration 
It is necessary to appoint an identified Officer who has senior responsibility, sufficient seniority and 
autonomy to manage the FCC programme. Without an appointed officer, accountability for FC risk 
management may become diluted. The appropriate level of expertise, proportionate to the size and 
complexity of your Entity’s business, is essential for an effective programme. The level of experience 
and expertise required should reflect the scale, complexity and FC and Sanctions risk of the FI’s 
business. The Correspondent may ask for information on the credentials of the appointed officer.  
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          18  
Question 
22 b 
Adverse information 
Screening 
Points for Consideration 
Also known as ‘negative news, adverse information may come by way of public sources, connections 
within the industry, law enforcement agencies, among others, and is defined as information with 
potential negative connotation which may impact the view on existing customer. The programme 
should define what is considered to be adverse media and set out an approach to reviewing it and 
the risk appetite for dealing with negative information and the governance approach to approval and 
exception handling. Documenting the identification, investigation and decision made are essential in 
terms of evidencing the handling of the information. 
Question 
22 c 
Beneficial Ownership Guidance  
Beneficial ownership refers to the ownership structure of legal entities and the UBO is the natural 
person(s) (i.e. one or more individuals) who benefit(s) from the legal Entity. 
Points for Consideration 
The programme should define the levels of direct and underlying beneficial ownership to be identified 
for different customer types and risk levels. Companies may be formed to hide the identity of the 
beneficial owner(s) (i.e. shell companies, private investment companies and trusts) but more broadly 
it is necessary to understand the ownership of legal entities in order to understand the risk they pose. 
Potential risk factors include geographic location of the owner, PEP or Sanctions exposure and source 
of wealth considerations. 
For more information, refer to the Wolfsberg Source of Wealth and Source of Funds FAQs. 
Question 
22 d 
Cash Reporting Guidance 
Indicate whether your Entity has cash reporting requirements. Only utilise the drop-down option “not 
applicable” if there are regulatory reasons for not reporting (i.e. there is no regulatory requirement 
to report cash transactions at any threshold) or operational reasons (e.g. the Entity does not handle 
cash). Utilise the free-text box under Question 29 to provide further information if needed. 
Points for Consideration 
If there is a cash reporting obligation in any of your Entity’s locations, the programme should 
document the standards to be followed. 
Question 
22 e 
CDD Points for Consideration 
Understanding customers’ information such as location of residence/activity, associated persons, type 
of activities, source of funds and wealth and purpose of the account will serve as the basis of an 
effective FCC programme, as it will provide essential information to use in the monitoring, screening 
and risk assessment of the business and protect the Respondent and the financial system from illicit 
activities. A lack of understanding of your customers’ personal details will lead to an ineffective FCC 
programme, as it does not give the necessary information to monitor, screen and assess customers’ 
potential risks. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          19  
Question 
22 f 
EDD Points for Consideration 
EDD is the gathering and analysis of additional due diligence information, tighter controls related to 
monitoring of transactions as well as more regular refresh of the account details. It is required when 
a customer presents potential elevated FC risks. Examples include customers whose source of income 
is from high-risk activities, customers with a nexus to sanctioned countries or are sanctioned 
themselves, complex ownership structures and those classified as PEPs. Most FIs and regulatory 
authorities around the world require such controls to be implemented, and more likely than not, so 
will the Correspondent. EDD requirements need to be defined, tailored to your Entity’s specific risk 
attributes and implemented as part of your FCC programme. It must also be applied consistently to 
all customers that are classified as such, from the account opening to the ongoing maintenance of 
accounts and the relationship. Consistent and effective EDD controls implementation protects not 
only the Entity and the Correspondent, but the financial system worldwide. 
Question 
22 g 
Independent Testing Points for Consideration 
To ensure the controls implemented are effective, independent testing is crucial and will mitigate the 
potential risk of operational failure and help identify potential gaps in the Entity’s FCC programme. 
The FCC programme should be subject to independent testing in addition to Internal Audit as a 
fundamental pillar of the overall control environment. The programme should map out the 
responsibilities, approach, frequency and reporting process for the independent testing. Independent 
does not mean external to the organisation. It may be an internal team with the necessary skill set 
and independence to the activity been monitored by them. In the absence of an effective and 
frequent testing programme, a bank will be dependent on relatively less frequent Internal Audits or 
Regulatory examinations to identify issues which may mean that issues are not discovered in a timely 
fashion and corrected as part of the FCC programme 
Question 
22 h 
Periodic Review Points for Consideration 
Periodic or ongoing reviews of your Entity’s customers’ CDD and EDD records will support and refresh 
your understanding of existing customers, ensuring changes are captured and creating the 
opportunity to identify potential new FC risks. They will provide the necessary information for 
accurate levels of monitoring, screening and general oversight to several customers. Without 
accurately understanding the current FC, Sanctions, Fraud or Bribery and Corruption risks the 
customers pose, the Entity is unable to know and document change in their PEP status, Sanctions 
status, business activity or potential adverse/negative news in the Media.  
Question 
22 i 
Policies and Procedures Guidance 
“Policies” establish the principles to be adhered to in order to ensure effective risk management, 
aligned to the three Lines of Defence model (refer to the Glossary for further information). 
“Procedures” support the implementation of the policy by providing detailed requirements that must 
be followed. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          20  
Points for Consideration 
Appropriate policies and procedures provide the foundation for a consistent FC programme. 
Documented policies and procedures are required to implement the defined standards of the 
programme across the Entity. Appropriate and documented policies and procedures support and 
enable the consistent execution of the FC programme. Policies and procedures must be all 
encompassing, across all FC programme elements, all organisational units, all legal entities under the 
programme and covering all processes, including review functions. Without a documented set of 
policies and procedures, the Entity will be unable to demonstrate that control processes exist, even 
if they occur in practice. It will also lead to staff having an inconsistent understanding of the 
programme and how to implement controls, making it impossible to manage the programme. The 
lack of documented policies and procedures is considered a high-risk factor. 
Question 
22 j 
PEP Screening Points for Consideration 
Understanding PEP risks is a requirement under most regulatory regimes. Having an established and 
effective PEP screening process, including the maintenance of appropriate lists which names are 
screened against, is an important part of the Entity’s CDD and ongoing due diligence process. The 
presence of such lists and processes will enable the Entity to develop an accurate understanding of 
customer potential FC risks. Your programme should include definitions of a PEP and include both 
domestic and foreign PEP definitions, the process standards for identifying and evaluating a PEP, the 
risk appetite for dealing with a PEP and the governance approach to approval and exception handling.  
For more information, refer to the Wolfsberg Guidance on PEPs. 
Question 
22 k 
Risk assessment Guidance 
Risk Assessment is an assessment of the inherent money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions 
and bribery and corruption risks, present within the Entity (customers, geography, products, 
channels), as well as the mitigating controls implemented to manage those risks, resulting in a 
residual risk rating. 
Points for Consideration 
The risk assessment is the opportunity to assess, document, analyse and create an accurate view of 
existing risks, controls and gaps that may be in place to share with the Entity’s senior management. 
Without such a process, it will be difficult for your Entity to understand its risks and will mean that 
effective controls are unlikely to be in place. The programme should set out the standards for the risk 
assessment process, how it is applied, executed, validated, and the implications of the outcomes. 
Additionally, the risk assessment helps to demonstrate an understanding of the FC risks. Your Entity 
should have an ongoing process for conducting its risk assessment exercise. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          21  
Question 
22 l 
Sanctions Guidance 
The FC programme must include a Sanctions programme, which should define which sanctions lists 
would apply, which data elements they would apply to, processes for review and approval, and set 
a risk appetite for dealing with customers with a sanctions nexus. 
Points for Consideration 
Transactional activity that is sent or received through the Correspondent on behalf of the Respondent 
customer must comply with applicable sanctions regulations. There is risk to the you as the 
Respondent and your Correspondent if impermissible activity flows through the relationship, and this 
drives the requirement to have appropriate controls in place, including the implementation of 
relevant Sanctions lists for ongoing screening. 
Question 
22 m 
Suspicious Activity 
Reporting 
Guidance 
Banks generally have an obligation to report suspicious or potentially suspicious activity to a 
designated competent government authority. This is known as Suspicious Activity or Suspicious 
Transaction reporting.  
Points for Consideration 
The programme should define clear standards for accuracy, completeness and review processes for 
suspicious transaction/activity reporting, including having the reports completed within the required 
timelines. 
Question 
22 n 
Training and Education Guidance 
Training and Education refers to activities delivered either internally or by a third party, designed to 
educate and develop management and staff, taking into account the Entity’s policies and procedures 
and for which attendance records are maintained. 
Points for Consideration 
A comprehensive training and educational programme is necessary to support an effective FCC 
programme. The programme should define the standards for the Training and Education programme 
required for management and staff, encompassing both general and specialised training, and 
including minimum standards of qualification/experience for critical roles, training curriculum, 
attendance and test pass standards, frequency of attendance and frequency of refresh and any 
requirements for independent qualification, among others. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          22  
Question 
22 o 
Transaction Monitoring Guidance 
Post-transaction AML monitoring designed to identify potentially suspicious activity that can be 
referred for further investigation and possible Suspicious Activity Reporting. 
Transaction monitoring allows you to the implement thresholds on volume, frequency and patterns, 
among other triggers in an effective and consistent manner. The ability to understand the nature of 
activity flowing through the Entity (and thus also through the Correspondent) is an essential 
component of an FCC programme. This is typically performed by some combination of automated 
and manual processes. 
Points for Consideration 
The programme should define standards for Transaction Monitoring including scope of coverage, 
tuning, threshold setting, documentation standards, and independent review. Consideration should 
be given to how Transaction Monitoring outcomes feed back to the understanding of customer risk. 
Question 
23 
How many full time 
employees are in the Entity's 
AML, CTF and Sanctions 
Compliance Department? 
Guidance 
This question excludes contactors and temporary staff and is only concerned with AML and Sanctions 
full time employees or equivalent in the second line of Defence (second line means independent risk 
and/or control stewards, such as Compliance, Operations, Risk or Legal, among others). If the first line 
function (first line means the front-line, customer facing functions) has dedicated staff performing 
FCC activities, please include this in the response to Question 29. 
Points for Consideration 
The number of staff dedicated to performing FCC activities should be commensurate with the size 
and scope of your Entity. The Correspondent will use this information in their assessment of your 
control environment.  
Question 
24 
Is the Entity's AML, CTF and 
Sanctions policy approved  at 
least annually by the  Board or 
equivalent Senior 
Management Committee? If N, 
describe your practice in 
Question 29. 
Guidance 
Policy may be maintained at the Entity or the Entity’s parent level – answer for the policy applied by 
the Entity completing the questionnaire. If the Entity’s answer is “no” add context in the free text box. 
Points for Consideration 
Senior Management’s understanding, awareness and approval of such fundamental policies 
demonstrates the commitment at Senior Level to the fight against FC. Lack of commitment can lead 
to insufficient controls and/or resources dedicated to preventing FCs. 
Question 
25 
Does the Board receive regular 
reporting on the status of the 
AML, CTF and Sanctions 
programme? 
Guidance 
“Reporting” means Management Information (MI) provided to Senior Management by way of 
presentation slides, metrics and/or discussions which can be evidenced via minutes. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          23  
  Points for Consideration 
Lack of regular reporting to senior levels of the organisation can lead to a lack of focus on evolving 
risks across the organisation. To ensure appropriate oversight of the programme, the Board, or the 
equivalent Senior Management Committee, would need to receive regular reports on status, including 
metrics, progress on key projects, issues identified, among others. The reporting should be clear, 
accurate, complete and such that the Board or other committees are able to demonstrate meaningful 
oversight over the programme. Where updates are provided during governance  meetings, a record 
of the information shared and minutes should be retained to provide evidence of discussion, 
escalation, understanding of the risks raised and agreed approach taken, to Audit and Regulatory 
visits. 
Question 
26 
Does the Entity use third 
parties to carry out  any 
components of its AML, CTF  
and Sanctions programme? 
Guidance 
Third party means a different legal Entity. This could be either related or unrelated to the responding 
Entity (i.e. either another Entity in the same group or an external Entity).  
Points for Consideration 
Any dependency on a third party carrying out c omponents of the FCC programme should be 
considered here. If a third party is employed to carry out FC prevention related activities, there should 
be appropriate controls in place to ensure that the third party is performing the tasks correctly. Even 
if the activity has been delegated, the responsibility for effective controls remains with the Entity. 
Question 
26 a 
If Y, provide further details Guidance 
Explain what is done by the third party, its responsibilities, details of the location where the third 
party is based, if it is regulated and by whom, if it is related to the Entity. Confirm if the third party is 
subject to the same governance, policies and procedures as your Entity. 
Points for Consideration 
If any third party is used, the programme should additionally map out the scope of work of those third 
parties and the oversight in place. This should include standards for reporting, independent 
evaluation, service review, among others. The Entity must ensure that they have appropriate access 
to relevant information held/maintained by the third party for its own risk management purposes 
and fulfilment of regulatory requirements, such as requests for information. 
Question 
27 
Does the Entity have a 
whistleblower policy? 
Points for Consideration 
A whistleblower policy is a best practice that promotes an environment where employees know the 
organisation is open to hearing concerns and complaints and is committed to transparency.  
Refer to the Glossary for further information. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          24  
4. Anti-Bribery & Corruption 
Question 
30 
Has the Entity documented 
policies and procedures  
consistent with  applicable 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
(ABC) regulations and  
requirements to reasonably 
prevent, detect and report 
bribery and corruption? 
Guidance 
“Reasonably” refers to the ability to reduce the exposure to bribery and corruption versus the ability 
to eradicate all risks. 
Points for Consideration 
Having an established and effective policy and procedure framework will demonstrate to the 
Correspondent that the required controls to identify, investigate and manage bribery and corruption 
risks are in place at your institution. Without a specific inclusion of ABC elements of an overall FCC 
programme, bribery and corruption risks may not get the necessary attention within an organisation. 
This could lead to risks materialising without appropriate mitigation. By creating policies and 
procedures that are clear, concise and accessible to all employees the foundation for the ABC 
programme is established. A lack of documented policies and procedures creates the risk that 
stakeholders (employee, joint ventures and third parties) are unaware of the requirements of the 
programme. It will also generate inconsistent understanding and implementation of controls, making 
it impossible to hold employees accountable for their responsibilities.  
Question 
31 
Does the Entity have an  
enterprise-wide programme 
that sets minimum  ABC 
standards? 
Guidance 
“Enterprise wide” refers to a programme which covers all relevant functions and activities which may 
be impacted by bribery and corruption risks, including branches and any businesses under your 
Entity’s responsibility. Refer to the programme which is currently in place – whether it is imposed by 
your parent company or designed by your Entity. 
Points for Consideration 
Without an enterprise-wide programme that sets minimum ABC standards there is a risk that the 
branches and businesses of the Entity will create and comply with inconsistent procedures. For this 
reason, it is important to ensure that all activities across the organisation adhere to the ABC 
programme. A programme involves all aspects of the risk control management, from governance to 
testing of effectiveness, and must include all functions/departments within the organisation. Bribery 
and Corruption risks may vary among jurisdictions. 
Question 
32 
Has the Entity appointed a 
designated officer or  officers 
with sufficient experience/ 
expertise responsible for  
coordinating the ABC  
programme? 
Guidance 
Has your Entity assigned accountability for the ABC programme to an appropriate individual? 
“Sufficient experience/expertise” is based on local regulatory expectations and industry standards in 
the jurisdiction where your Entity is based. When considering sufficient experience take into account 
the role(s) previously undertaken by that individual and length of time they have spent in the financial 
services industry. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          25  
  Points for Consideration 
Without appropriate expertise, your Entity is at risk of not understanding the nature of its bribery 
and corruption risks and how they are being mitigated. Designating an officer with sufficient ABC 
expertise and sufficient autonomy and authority to coordinate the ABC programme helps ensure that 
the programme is managed effectively and it sends a strong message to all stakeholders that ABC 
compliance is taken seriously by your organisation. Not all organisations require an appointed officer 
to look at bribery and corruption controls only. Your organisation must assess its requirements and 
complexity to make such a decision. In some cases, the Money Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO) 
is also the ABC appointed officer. 
Question 
33 
Does the Entity have 
adequate staff with  
appropriate levels  of 
experience/expertise to 
implement the ABC  
programme? 
Points for Consideration 
An ABC programme without adequate staff or the necessary ABC expertise and resources creates the 
risk that the programme does not function effectively.  
Question 
34 
Is the Entity's ABC programme 
applicable to: 
Guidance 
Select the appropriate option from the drop-down list of answers. 
Question 
34 (Choice 
1) 
Joint ventures Points for Consideration 
Joint venture activity can create liability for your organisation if the joint venture partner(s) engage 
in bribery and corruption. Making your ABC programme applicable to joint ventures, helps mitigate 
risk. 
Question 
34 (Choice 
2) 
Third parties acting on behalf 
of the Entity 
Points for Consideration 
Similar to 26, your Entity is responsible for the actions of third parties acting on your behalf, including 
if the third party engages in bribery and corruption. 
Question 
35 
Does the Entity have a global 
ABC policy that: 
Guidance 
Indicate whether you have a global ABC policy that includes the requirements of Questions 35 a-c.  
For more information, refer to the Wolfsberg Group ABC Programme Guidance for further 
information 
Question 
35a 
Prohibits the giving and  
receiving of bribes? This  
includes promising,  offering, 
giving, solicitation or receiving 
of anything of value, directly or 
Guidance 
‘Promising’ refers to the action of promising and not acting on the promise of bribe. ‘Offering’ refers 
to the act of offering bribe, even if not accepted. ‘Giving’ refers to the action of give bribe, solicited 
or not. ‘Solicitation’ refers to the act of asking for a bribe, even if not received. ‘Receiving’ refers to 
the act of holding the bribe. ‘Directly or indirectly’ refers to circumstances where the person sending 
or receiving the bribe is not the direct recipient but the beneficiary of the act of the bribe. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          26  
indirectly, if imprope rly 
intended to influence action or 
obtain an advantage 
Points for Consideration 
Prohibiting the giving and receiving of bribes is the foundation of an ABC programme. 
Question 
35 b 
Includes enhanced 
requirements regarding 
interaction with public 
officials? 
Guidance 
Public Officials may include employees, appointees or other representatives of government offices 
or departments at the national, regional, local or municipal level, or of state-controlled companies, 
or of international organisations.  
Points for Consideration 
Interactions with public officials can be considered to pose a higher risk of bribery and corruption. 
They may not be considered PEPs under your Entity’s definition as they do not hold a senior position 
of power. There have, however, been numerous cases where interactions with public officials have 
created opportunities for bribery and corruption. Such conduct could create significant liability for 
under applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) 
and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (UKBA), amongst others. This risk can be mitigated by establishing 
procedures governing interactions with public officials as part of the ABC programme. 
Question 
35 c 
Includes a prohibition  against 
the falsification of books and 
records (this may be within the 
ABC policy or any other policy 
applicable to the Legal Entity)? 
Guidance 
“Books” refers to financial accounts. “Records” refer to any records retained for audit purposes. 
Points for Consideration 
 Several jurisdictions require relevant organisations to maintain accurate books and records. There 
could be liability if all business activity is not recorded accurately in your organisation’s books and 
records. Even if such laws do not exist in the jurisdiction, a formal prohibition against falsification of 
books and records sends a message to the stakeholders that such conduct will not be tolerated. Your 
Correspondent will most likely need to comply with such regulations. 
Question 
36 
Does the Entity have  controls 
in place to monitor the  
effectiveness of their ABC 
programme? 
Guidance 
“Monitor the effectiveness” refers to testing and oversight that your Entity has implemented to 
assess compliance with your ABC programme. 
Points for Consideration 
Without controls in place to monitor the effectiveness of the ABC programme, including independent 
audit reviews, there is a risk that your programme does not function as intended, which means 
bribery and corruption could go undetected. It also refers to records of ABC training, approvals for 
gift and entertainment, hiring, and third-party delegation, among other components of the ABC 
programme. 
Question 
37 
Does the Board  receive, assess 
and challenge regular reporting 
on the status of the ABC 
programme? 
Guidance 
“Reporting” means MI which is reported to Senior Management by way of presentation slides, and/or 
discussions which can be evidenced via minutes. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          27  
  Points for Consideration 
Regular MI on ABC matters for your Entity’s Board and senior management is crucial to establishing 
a strong ethical tone from the top and across the organisation. It signals to stakeholders that the 
individuals charged with the overall management of the organisation are concerned with bribery and 
corruption matters and treat such matters as a priority. Without ongoing, accurate and clear MI to 
support the Board and senior management’s awareness of existing risks and controls (among other 
key information), your organisation may not be able to discharge its responsibilities in relation to ABC 
oversight effectively. 
Question 
38 
Has the Entity's ABC  
Enterprise-Wide Risk 
Assessment (EWRA) been 
completed in the last 12 
months? 
Guidance 
EWRA Means an ongoing risk assessment performed at the Entity level, looking at inherent risk, 
mitigating controls and residual risks and their effectiveness. 
Points for Consideration 
The risk assessment is the opportunity to assess, document, analyse and create an accurate view of 
the existing risks, controls and gaps that exist, to share with senior management. Without such a 
view, it will be difficult to understand the risks and, most likely, to have effective controls in place. 
The programme should set out the standards for the risk assessment process, how it is applied, 
executed, tested, and the implications of the outcomes. Additionally, the risk assessment helps to 
demonstrate an understanding of ABC risk.  
Question 
39 
Does the Entity have an ABC 
residual risk rating that is the 
net result of the controls 
effectiveness and the inherent 
risk assessment? 
Guidance 
Residual risk means the risk that remains after the effectiveness of controls has been applied to the 
inherent risk your organisation faces. 
Points for Consideration 
By developing a risk rating that is based upon (1) the effectiveness of the ABC controls and (2) the 
inherent bribery and corruption risks facing the Entity’s branches and businesses, they can identify 
the highest risk areas and then deploy ABC programme resources to address those highest risk areas. 
Question 
40 
Does the Entity's ABC EWRA  
cover the inherent risk 
components detailed below: 
Guidance 
For each sub-question indicate whether your ABC EWRA includes that component.  
Question 
40 a 
Potential liability created by  
intermediaries and other third-
party providers as appropriate 
Points for Consideration 
As noted under Question 34, your Entity is responsible for the actions of third parties acting on your 
behalf. Accordingly, risk assessments addressing the use of third parties enable the Entity to evaluate 
how well the ABC programme mitigates the risks of those third parties. 
Question 
40 b 
Corruption risks associated  
with the countries and 
industries in which the Entity 
does business, directly or 
through intermediaries 
Points for Consideration 
Certain countries and industries pose greater bribery and corruption risk. By factoring countries and 
industries in which Entity you do business into the risk assessments, ABC programme resources and 
controls can be deployed more effectively to mitigate bribery and corruption risk. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          28  
Question 
40 c 
Transactions, products or 
services, including those  that 
involve state-owned or state-
controlled entities  or public 
officials 
Points for Consideration 
As noted under Question 35 b, interaction with public officials poses significant liability risk under 
relevant anti-corruption laws. It is important that the risk assessments consider interactions with 
public officials, state-owned or state-controlled entities, so that your ABC programme can mitigate 
the risk of bribery and corruption.  
Question 
40 d 
Corruption risks associated  
with gifts and hospitality, 
hiring/internships, charitable  
donations and political 
contributions 
Points for Consideration 
Activities such as gift giving, entertaining, hiring, and making charitable donations and political 
contributions can be performed to influence action or obtain an advantage. This activity creates the 
risk of bribery and corruption liability. Accordingly, risk assessments should evaluate such activities 
across your organisation to ensure that the ABC programme effectively monitors these types of 
activities. 
Question 
40e 
Changes in business activities 
that may  materially increase 
the Entity’s corruption risk 
Points for Consideration 
Changes in business activities may add additional bribery and corruption risks not previously 
assessed, such as a new investment venture with a government body. Your risk assessment must 
have the necessary tools to capture and consider such risks in a timely manner. 
Question 
41 
Does the Entity's internal audit 
function or other independent 
third party cover ABC Policies 
and Procedures? 
Points for Consideration 
By having internal audit or an independent third party with ABC expertise evaluate the organisation’s 
ABC programme, it ensures that the programme is reviewed by an independent Entity. This provides 
an objective evaluation of the effectiveness of the programme.  
Question 
42 
Does the Entity provide 
mandatory ABC training to: 
Guidance 
For each sub-question, indicate whether you provide training to that group. 
Question 
42 a 
Board and senior  Committee 
Management 
Guidance 
Respond to this question considering the Board responsible for the responding Entity (which may be 
the Board of the parent). 
Points for Consideration 
ABC training tailored to the organisation’s Board and senior management enhances the Management 
team’s skills and capability to understand bribery and corruption risks, their responsibilities and 
ensures the ongoing focus on ABC controls.  
Question 
42 b 
Fist Line of Defence Points for Consideration 
ABC training for First Line of Defence employees mitigates bribery and corruption risk because these 
employees are in the best position to identify and prevent potential bribery and corruption as they 
have direct visibility into the relevant conduct. Providing mandatory ABC training, ensures that these 
employees are attuned to these issues. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          29  
Question 
42 c 
Second Line of Defence Points for Consideration 
Second Line of Defence employees are usually responsible for identifying suspicious patterns of 
conduct. Accordingly, providing appropriate ABC training to these employees ensures that they are 
equipped to identify and report potential improper conduct and thereby mitigating bribery and 
corruption risk. 
Question 
42 d 
Third Line of Defence Points for Consideration 
Third Line of Defence refers to Audit and any independent assessment unit. As per Question 42 c, the 
risk of bribery and corruption can be reduced by providing appropriate ABC training, ensuring that 
the employees are equipped to identify and report potential improper conduct. 
Question 
42 e 
Third parties to which specific 
compliance activities subject to 
ABC risk have been outsourced 
Guidance 
Refers to training provided to third parties which currently perform ABC compliance activities on 
behalf of the Entity. 
Points for Consideration 
Any third party that is responsible for ABC compliance activities should receive mandatory ABC 
training. Failure to do so creates the risk that the third party is not familiar with the ABC programme 
and does not adhere to the programme’s requirements. 
Question 
42 f 
Non-employed workers  as 
appropriate (contractors/ 
consultants) 
Points for Consideration 
Any non-employed workers that is responsible for ABC compliance activities should receive 
mandatory ABC training. Failure to do so creates the risk that the third party is not familiar with the 
ABC programme and does not adhere to the programme’s requirements. 
Question 
43 
Does the  Entity provide ABC 
training that is targeted to  
specific roles,  responsibilities 
and activities? 
Guidance 
Refers to training designed for specific roles/jobs/positions to help them understand their 
responsibilities in relation to ABC in their day -to-day activities. (e.g. employees that are responsible 
for booking customer entertainment or travel) 
Points for Consideration 
As noted under Questions 42 a-f, various stakeholders occupy different roles with respect to the ABC 
programme. Accordingly, it is important to provide each stakeholder with targeted training that 
addresses their roles and responsibilities as they relate to the programme. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          30  
5. AML, CTF & Sanctions Policies and Procedures  
Question 
46 
Has the Entity documented 
policies and procedures 
consistent with applicable 
AML, CTF and Sanctions 
regulations and requirements 
to reasonably prevent, detect 
and report: 
Guidance 
Indicate through each sub-question whether you have documented policies and procedures to 
address the main elements of an AML, CTF and Sanctions programme.  
Points for Consideration 
Lack of documented policies and procedures can lead to failure to comply with jurisdictional 
requirements or inconsistent implementation of controls and provide opportunity for illicit actors to 
abuse a respondent for money laundering, including routing FC-related activity through the Entity. 
The extent to which a group-wide policy is implemented will be considered by the Correspondent as 
a best practice. 
Question 
46 a 
Money laundering Refer to the Glossary  
Question 
46 b 
Terrorist financing Refer to the Glossary  
Question 
46 c 
Sanctions violations Refer to ‘Sanctions’ in the Glossary 
Question 
47 
Are the Entity's policies and  
procedures updated at least  
annually? 
Points for Consideration 
Good governance requires periodic assessment of regulatory requirements and policies and 
procedures against industry best practices. It is essential to have a process in place which requires all 
branches and segments of the Business to regularly update their policies and procedures. Lack of 
processes for updating policies and procedures may result in failure to identify or gaps with current 
applicable regulatory requirements and demonstrate limited focus on FC controls.   
Question 
48 
Has the Entity chosen to 
compare its policies and 
procedures against: 
Points for Consideration 
If your Entity is not bound by the regulations of key financial markets, most likely your Correspondent 
will be, in order to transact in their markets and currencies. Your Entity may choose to perform a gap 
analysis to understand where any variations are and decide on what elements may be worth 
implementing. 
Two key markets are U.S. and EU. Once the analysis is complete, it is a good practice to identify 
potential ways to strengthen existing policies and procedures if gaps are identified. 
Question 
48 a 
US Standards Points for Consideration 
Your US Correspondent will be subject to US Standards. Aligning some or all of your processes to US 
standards may support your access to US payment systems.  
Question 
48 b 
EU Standards Points for Consideration 
Similar to the points for consideration in Question 48 a, compliance with European Standards and 
requirements may support access to EU payment systems.  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          31  
Question 
49 
Does the Entity have policies 
and procedures that: 
Guidance 
For each sub-question indicate whether you have policies and procedures covering that topic. 
Question 
49 a 
Prohibit the opening and 
keeping of anonymous and 
fictitious named accounts 
Guidance 
Anonymous and fictitious named accounts mean accounts where the true account-owner is not 
known to your Entity or where identifying information about the true account-owner is not 
transmitted by your institution to FIs when you send payment or other financial messages to them. 
Points for Consideration 
Maintaining anonymous and fictitious named accounts provides no transparency into the 
owner/controllers which may lead to potential misuse of the accounts by illicit actors. Also, these 
types of naming conventions do not allow for effective economic sanctions and name screening by 
any party in the payment chain. Failure to recognise these types of accounts may increase FC risk. If 
these accounts exist at the Entity, it is imperative to complete and identify relevant ownership and 
control to determine if there are any bad actors, PEPs, negative media, tied to the account owners.  
Question 
49 b 
Prohibit the opening and 
keeping of accounts for 
unlicensed banks and/or NBFIs 
Points for Consideration 
The inability to identify unregistered or unlicensed entities that have registration or licensing 
requirements may leave your Entity open to FC risks. If these accounts exist at your institution, and 
they refuse to provide evidence of licensing, a determination should be made regarding the 
legitimacy of the customer. In addition, unlicensed banks/NBFIs may not be abiding by their local 
regulations.  
Question 
49 c 
Prohibit dealing with other 
entities that provide  banking 
services to unlicensed banks 
Points for Consideration 
Maintaining accounts for entities which deal with unlicensed banks introduces the potential risk of 
processing transactions for entities not properly vetted and not subject to regulatory oversight and 
review, for both Respondent and Correspondent. Failure to identify this activity for an existing 
customer could lead to the correspondent/respondent institution being liable for executing 
transactions that could be considered unlawful.  
Question 
49 d 
Prohibit 
accounts/relationships with 
shell banks 
Guidance 
Per FATF, a shell bank is “a bank that has no physical presence in the country in which it is 
incorporated and licensed, and which is unaffiliated with a regulated financial group that is subject 
to effective consolidated supervision. Physical presence means meaningful mind and management 
located within a country. The existence simply of a local agent or low-level staff does not constitute 
physical presence.”  Many jurisdictions prohibit doing any business with these types of entities.  
For more information, refer to FATF Recommendation 13. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          32  
  Points for Consideration  
Shell banks have been found to be used to facilitate FC, as there is no regulatory oversight due to a 
lack of physical presence. Offering services to a shell bank can allow bad actors/criminals to gain 
access to the financial systems to facilitate FC.  
Question 
49 e 
Prohibit dealing with  another 
Entity that provides services to 
shell banks 
Guidance 
Even if there is not a direct relationship with shell banks, if there is a downstream customer who 
offers services to shell banks, there would be exposure to FC risks from those entities. 
Points for Consideration 
Offering services to an Entity that provides services to a shell bank can allow bad actors/criminals to 
gain access to the financial systems to facilitate FC. 
Question 
49 f 
Prohibit opening and 
keeping of accounts for Section 
311 designated entities 
Guidance 
Section 311 allows the U.S. Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) to take certain special 
measures against foreign jurisdictions, foreign FIs, classes of international transactions, or types of 
accounts of primary money laundering concern.  
Points for Consideration 
Correspondent banks subject to these rules will require their respondent banks to understand the 
risks associated with continuing to do business with the designated parties and implement controls 
to mitigate the risk of transactions being conducted through the accounts maintained at the 
correspondent bank. You can expect to have a discussion with their Correspondent on this control 
and how it can ensure compliance with these requirements. You should also consider performing 
their own screening for the presence of such entities in their payment activity. If your Entity conducts 
business with a foreign FI that is designated as a 311 primary money laundering concern, this can 
create issues with your correspondent bank(s) if your Entity attempts to transact in US Dollar on 
behalf of a designated foreign FI, as U.S. Correspondents are not allowed to process payments for 
311 entities.  
Question 
49 g 
Prohibit opening and  keeping 
of accounts for any of 
unlicensed/unregulated 
remittance agents,  exchanges 
houses, casa de cambio, 
bureaux de change or money 
transfer agents 
Points for Consideration 
Failing to identify unregistered or unlicensed entities, where such entities are generally required to 
be registered or licensed, may leave an Entity open to FC risks. If these accounts exist at the 
institution, a determination should be made regarding the legitimacy of the customer. If you have 
relationships with such unlicensed/unregulated entities, you should be prepared to demonstrate to 
your correspondent(s) how you gain comfort in relation to their activities (where licensing/regulation 
would normally be required). Maintaining accounts for unlicensed money transmitters and exchange 
houses can lead to additional risks as these entities are not generally subject to regulatory oversight 
and review.   
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          33  
Question 
49 h 
Assess the risks of relationships 
with domestic and foreign 
PEPs, including their family and 
close associates 
Points for Consideration 
PEPs carry a greater risk of bribery and corruption because their prominent role in a country and their 
public function can make them a target for bad actors seeking undue influence. Failure to understand 
and assess the potential risk of PEPS, related family members and associates can create exposure to 
the movement of illicit funds, including those associated with corruption. 
Question 
49 i 
Define the process for 
escalating FC risk 
issues/potentially suspicious 
activity identified by 
employees 
Points for Consideration 
Lack of clear escalation processes may lead to failure in investigating and reporting potential 
suspicious activity. A clear escalation path for AML and CTF issues should be implemented that is 
available to all staff. It should be independent and route to qualified individuals to ensure that risks 
and/or suspicious activity are quickly identified and actioned.  
Question 
49 j 
Define the process, where  
appropriate, for terminating  
existing customer relationships 
due to financial crime risk 
Points for Consideration 
Lack of clear processes for terminating relationships for FC concerns may lead to potential criminal 
activity continuing to flow through your organisation. A clear and defined exit process will not only 
assist with the exit but will also ensure that accounts are swiftly closed, and related parties are 
reviewed. These actions should seek to identify potentially related businesses or accounts remaining 
at the institution to mitigate the identified FC.  
Question 
49 k 
Define the process for exiting 
customers for financial crime  
reasons that applies across the 
Entity, including foreign 
branches and affiliates 
Points for Consideration 
Lack of a clear identification and escalation process for exiting customers that conduct suspicious 
activity may lead to a failure to report potential FC, including lack of management oversight, 
consistent processes and rogue employees. Consider what happens after the escalation and 
reporting process. How are any ongoing risks posed by customers/activity addressed and how is the 
identification of associated accounts at branches and affiliates identified.  
Question 
49 l 
Define the process and controls 
to identify and handle 
customers that were 
previously exited for financial 
crime reasons if they seek to 
re-establish a relationship 
Points for Consideration 
If a customer or related parties seeks to re-establish a relationship, the reasons and the risks 
associated with the original exit must be vetted and mitigated. There should be substantive proof 
that the risk issues identified earlier no longer exist. Lack of a full review of a customer that wants to 
re-establish a relationship may result in repeated risks if the customer has the same or similar 
management, regardless of whether there is a change in operational policies. 
Question 
49 m 
 
Outline the processes  
regarding screening for  
sanctions, PEPs and adverse 
media/negative news 
Points for Consideration 
There should be a clear definition and screening process for these specific entities/persons so they 
can be identified and screened. Screening is essential to assist in identifying and mitigating the risks 
associated with customers that are subject to sanctions, PEP, or adverse media/negative news 
concerns. This screening should include variations in spelling and/or foreign language if applicable. 
Failure to maintain methods to identify PEPs properly and to screen for sanctions and negative can 
expose the Entity to unidentified risks which are not properly assessed, monitored or mitigated. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          34  
Question 
49 n 
Outline the processes for the 
maintenance of internal 
"watchlists" 
Points for Consideration 
Failure to maintain methods to prevent previously exited customers and related parties internally 
identified from re-onboarding or re-entering the bank can lead to processing transactions with 
elevated FC risk, which presents concerns as to the effectiveness of the FC programme. 
Question 
50 
Has the Entity defined a risk 
tolerance statement or similar 
document which defines a risk 
boundary around their 
business? 
Guidance 
A risk tolerance/risk appetite statement documents the level of the exposure beyond which the 
Entity is not prepared to accept additional risks. This can reduce and protect against unwanted risks 
and set business expectations in advance, thus ensuring that sales partners are aware of which 
customers to pursue and which not to pursue.  
Points for Consideration 
Failure to define a risk appetite/risk tolerance for your Entity can lead to an unacceptable level of risk 
which may not be mitigated by controls. Risk appetite/risk tolerance is a way of defining and 
measuring what business your Entity will or will not accept. 
Question 
51 
Does the  Entity have record 
retention procedures that 
comply with applicable laws? 
Guidance 
A robust programme includes documented procedures outlining the minimum period for which 
records must be kept, e.g. CDD information, outcome of screening controls, escalation and decisions 
made by Senior Management and others.  
Points for Consideration 
Lack of defined procedures for maintenance of records can put your Entity at risk of breaching 
applicable laws. Minimum record keeping requirements may be defined by local regulations and are 
also guided by FATF Recommendation 11. 
6. AML, CTF & Sanctions Risk Assessment 
Question 
54 
Does the Entity's AML and CTF 
EWRA cover the inherent risk 
components detailed below 
Guidance 
The Wolfsberg Group have published the Wolfsberg FAQs on Risk Assessments for Money 
Laundering, Sanctions and Bribery & Corruption which should prove helpful to entities seeking to 
understand the process and language. 
Question 
54 a 
Customer 
 
Points for Consideration 
What is the overall residual risk of the customer base as a whole? Consider the percentage of high, 
medium and low risk customers and the controls in place to mitigate that risk. Also consider the 
percentage of customers which may have higher industry risk and PEP risk. This kind of information 
helps management assess if your Entity’s current risk exposure fits within the risk appetite. Not 
identifying the proportion of active customers by risk and industry type may cause gaps in attempts 
to mitigate the risk presented by higher risk customers effectively. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          35  
Question 
54 b 
Product 
 
Guidance 
Different products have different risks. Product controls should be assessed, e.g. Terms & Conditions, 
early surrender, payments on behalf of the customers, cross border nature, sold by intermediaries. 
What percentage of products have higher risk indicators? 
Points for Consideration 
Failure to be aware of the risk of products and how many customers utilise such products, can inhibit 
the appropriate controls that have been implemented for such product. 
Question 
54c 
Channel Guidance Examples of channels are face to face, fax, post/mail, image transfer, internet banking, 
mainframe links and SWIFT. 
Points for Consideration 
Consider the risks associated with how the Entity interacts with customers. Assess which channels 
expose the Entity to higher risks and determine the percentage of such channels being utilised, so 
that the associated controls are appropriate. 
Question 
54 d 
Geography 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider what percentage of activities involve higher risk geographies which will enable the Entity to 
ensure that controls are appropriately designed and implemented. This analysis should allow for 
identification of any concentration of customers (and their connected/related parties) from countries 
with a higher probability of AML and CTF risk and the proportion of payments which are made 
to/from higher risk countries. 
Question 
55 
Does the Entity's AML and CTF 
EWRA cover the controls 
effectiveness components 
detailed below: 
 
Guidance 
Controls are programmes, policies or activities put in place to protect against the materialisation of 
money laundering and terrorism financing risks, and to ensure their prompt identification. Each 
control should be assessed for overall design and operating effectiveness. Controls are also used to 
maintain compliance with regulations governing activities. 
Points for Consideration 
The risk of internal controls not being evaluated periodically to determine their effectiveness is that 
they will remain static and will not effectively offset the overall inherent risks identified by the EWRA, 
or other means of risk assessment, as the organisation evolves. 
Question 
55 a 
Transaction Monitoring 
 
Points for Consideration 
 Consider the type of transaction monitoring which is applied to customers, products, channels and 
geography in the organisation and assess its suitability versus existing inherent risks. Is the 
monitoring automated or manual? Consider if the rules and scenarios are appropriate for your 
customer base, including whether they are subject to tuning or other validation exercises. Consider 
if tactical monitoring is required to be implemented where gaps exist in the transaction monitoring 
framework. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          36  
Question 
55 b 
Customer Due Diligence (CDD) 
 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider the effectiveness of the CDD requirements and implementation, e.g. how quickly are they 
applied, how frequently the data are refreshed, whether they are risk-based, and performance 
indicators relating to the execution of CDD within your organisation (e.g. is CDD completed on time 
and to an appropriate quality standard? Are exceptions used appropriately, etc.?).  
The lack of an effective CDD programme may prevent the Entity from appropriately identifying 
customers, assigning risk ratings and understanding the purpose of their relationships. The CDD 
programme must be designed to identify elements including sanctions exposure, source of 
funds/wealth, adverse media/negative news and PEP exposure and include provisions for the CDD 
Information to be updated using a risk-based approach. 
Question 
55 c 
PEP identification 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider the effectiveness of the way PEPs are identified, how regularly such customers are 
monitored, screened and their KYC profiles updated. 
Unidentified PEP relationships may cause the risk rating to be incorrect and may prevent the correct 
EDD measures from being in place to mitigate any potential FC risk. 
Question 
55 d 
Transaction Screening 
 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider the effectiveness of any screening of transactions against lists besides sanctions lists (which 
are covered below). For example, any internal watchlists that are maintained and against which 
transactions are screened.  
Question 
55 e 
Name Screening against 
Adverse Media/Negative News 
 
 
Points for Consideration 
How frequently are customers’ names screened against adverse media/negative news? What news 
sources are used? Does screening cover connected parties (such as owners and directors)? What 
procedures are in place for determining what constitutes material events and how they are to be 
processed and escalated? What processes are in place to address any inquiries from your 
Correspondent(s) about adverse media/negative news affecting your Entity or its customers? 
The lack of Negative Media screening on customers may result in failure to identify the risk they pose 
to your Entity and result in a need to change the risk rating or conduct further due diligence and 
potentially lead to an exit. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          37  
Question 
55 f 
Training and Education 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider the volume, quality and frequency of training provided, and whether completion and 
success rate are documented. Also consider how frequently training materials are updated so they 
remain useful and relevant. Targeted training, focus on key roles, utilising practical examples and 
case studies is an important part of effective training. A process to risk rate departments or business 
areas enables the identification of higher risk areas that may require more frequent or specialised 
training. 
Without effective training, the first Line of Defence will not be equipped to identify FC risks efficiently 
and the second line will not have the necessary knowledge to provide oversight. Senior management 
will not be in a strong position to discharge its responsibilities and prioritise key controls. Education 
is also a key element of control, as it provides regular regulatory updates, lessons learned from 
industry fines and keeps FCC themes at the forefront of the organisation's priorities. 
Question 
55 g 
Governance 
 
 
Guidance 
Governance means a documented, regular and targeted set of tools to help management discharge 
its responsibilities effectively. It can include but is not limited to meetings, e-mails, presentations, 
escalation paths, defined roles and responsibilities via ‘terms of reference’, among others.  
Points for Consideration 
Not only must your Entity ensure that appropriate governance is in place in relation to FC controls, 
but also that it incorporates documented proof of meetings, decisioning, discussions and escalations, 
where relevant. Unless all key stages of the control framework are documented, they cannot be 
evidenced and may be considered as non-existent or weaker by Auditors and Regulatory Authorities. 
Question 
55 h 
Management information 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider the quality of the MI generated in relation to FC controls and how effective that is. Different 
types of MI are produced in a bank  related to AML/CTF. Some will focus on daily tasks, helping to 
identify errors/gaps in the existing controls. Others will be developed specificall y for senior  
management and will help management to have an overview of the end-to-end FCC programme. 
Lack of appropriate and accurate MI (e.g. wrong  data sources, different parameters utilised to 
compare the same information, inconsistent dates, etc.), may cause the organisation to be ineffective 
in identifying risks or failures in the FCC programme. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          38  
Question 
56 
Has the Entity's AML and CTF 
EWRA been conducted in the 
last 12 months? 
 
Points for Consideration 
A risk assessment that is not refreshed regularly cannot serve as a tool to track and highlight changes 
in risk exposure, the controls in place and any challenges in managing risk effectively. Without regular 
refresh, underlying risks could have changed without appropriate management oversight. Your Entity 
should decide on the appropriate frequency of the risk assessment to maintain the relevance of the 
findings and risk mitigation programme. If the risk assessment is not conducted annually an 
explanation should be provided. 
Question 
57 
Does the Entity's Sanctions  
EWRA cover the inherent risk 
components detailed below: 
Guidance 
For each sub-question, indicate whether that component is included in your Sanctions EWRA as an 
inherent risk. 
Question 
57 a 
Customer  
 
Points for Consideration 
What is the overall sanctions residual risk exposure via the customer base and their transactions? 
Consider the special risks posed by customers who transact with jurisdictions that are prohibited to 
your Entity or your Correspondents? Also consider what thresholds are  acceptable for sanctioned 
parties’ ownership of the customers? This kind of information helps management assess if your 
organisation’s sanction risk fits its risk appetite. 
Question 
57 b 
Product 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider end-to-end data flows for all products so your organisation can be sure that all relevant 
data is being captured for screening. Certain products (especially those that include third parties) 
may great exposure to additional Sanctions risks if the controls are not fit for purpose. 
Question 
57 c 
Channel Guidance  
Examples of channels are face to face, fax, post/mail, image transfer, internet banking, mainframe 
links and SWIFT.       
Points for Consideration 
Not understanding the product and customer  delivery channels and their respective controls in 
relation to Sanctions exposure may create a gap in the effectiveness of the programme. For example, 
can customers amend the reference or address to avoid identification of Sanctions nexus by the 
screening systems? 
Consider the risks associated with the method of customer interaction. Assess which channels 
present exposure to higher sanctions risks and determine the percentage of such channels being 
utilised, so that the controls are appropriate. Consider whether any of these channels provides 
reduced visibility to parties involved. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          39  
Question 
57 d 
 
Geography Points for Consideration 
Consider the sanctions exposure presented by the location of the customers and their 
counterparties. Particularly those in proximity to sanctioned jurisdictions. This analysis should allow 
for the assessment of the required controls to prevent facilitating transac tions with sanctioned 
jurisdictions/entities. 
Question 
58 
Does the Entity's Sanctions  
EWRA cover the controls  
effectiveness components 
detailed below:  
Guidance 
Controls include programmes, policies or activities put in place to mitigate sanctions risks, ensuring 
that potential risks are promptly identified. Each  control should be assessed for overall design and 
operating effectiveness. Controls are also used to maintain compliance with regulations governing 
the activities. 
If internal con trols are not evaluated to determine their effectiveness , this increases the risk  that 
they will remain static and will not effectively offset the overall inherent risks identified by the EWRA 
as your organisation evolves and offers new products or services. 
Question 
58 a 
Customer Due Diligence (CDD) Points for Consideration 
Does the CDD process identify whether or not the customer operates in a Sanctioned country? Does 
the due diligence program me identify potential customer ownership in a Sanctioned country or 
customer business relationships with those in Sanctioned countries?  
Not completing full CDD could create sanctions risks associated with  new customers, leaving the 
Entity open to regulatory related issues. Robust CDD will assist in the identification of potential 
sanctions nexus of customers and their key stakeholders. 
Question 
58 b 
Governance Points for Consideration 
Not only must you r Entity ensure that appropriate governance is in place in relation to sanctions 
controls, but also that it incorporates documented  decisioning and escalations, where relevant. 
Unless all key stages of the control framework are documented they cannot be evidenced and may 
be considered as non-existent or weaker by auditors and regulatory authorities. 
Governance is crucial for the management of sanctions risk, to ensure senior management oversight 
of potential concern 
Question 
58c 
List Management Points for Consideration 
List Management is critical to the management of sanctions risk. The processes to manage changes 
to relevant lists is key to ensuring all parties and jurisdictions subject to sanctions are properly 
identified. Out of date screening lists could lead to sanctions breaches and regulatory scrutiny. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          40  
Question 
58 d 
Management information Points for Consideration 
Consider the quality of the MI generated in relation to sanctions controls and how effective that is 
for your organisation. Different types of MI are produced related to sanctions. Some will focus on 
daily tasks, helping to identify errors/gaps in the existing controls. Others  will be developed 
specifically for senior management and will help management to have an overview of the end-to-end 
sanctions programme. 
Question 
58 e 
Name Screening  
 
 
Points for Consideration 
How frequently does your Entity screen customers’ names against sanctions lists? Does screening 
cover connected parties (such as owners and directors)? What procedures are in place for 
determining what constitutes material events and how they are to be processed and escalated? Not 
completing accurate sanctions name screening may lead to sanctions breaches and regulatory 
concerns. 
Question 
58 f 
Transaction Screening 
 
 
Points for Consideration 
Are the transaction screening processes effective in protecting from sanctions violations? Is the 
output used to identify which customers pose a sanctions risk? Are the results of sanctions screening 
processes linked to CDD/KYC processes to build a fuller picture of the risk presented by the 
customers? Have you considered screening the transactions that flow to your Correspondent using 
the sanctions requirements of that jurisdiction? As one example if you do not screen US Dollar activity 
against the OFAC list you are exposed to the possibility that your US Dollar Correspondent will 
block/freeze or reject the transaction under OFAC regulations. 
Question 
58 g 
Training and Education 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider the volume, quality and frequency of training provided, and whether completion and 
success rate are documented. Also consider how frequently training materials are updated so they 
remain useful and relevant. Targeted training, focus on key roles, utilising practical examples and 
case studies is an important part of effective training. A process to risk rate the departments or 
business areas would identification of higher risk areas that may require more frequent or specialised 
training. 
Without effective training, the first Line of Defence will not be equipped to identify sanctions risks 
efficiently and the second line will not have the necessary knowledge to provide oversight. Senior 
management will not be in a strong position to discharge its responsibilities and prioritise key 
controls. Education is also a key element of control, as it provides regular regulatory updates, lessons 
learned from industry fines and keeps FCC themes at the forefront of the organisation's priorities. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          41  
Question 
59 
Has the Entity's Sanctions 
EWRA been conducted in the 
last 12 months? 
 
Points for Consideration 
A risk assessment that is not refreshed regularly cannot serve as a tool to track and highlight changes 
in exposure, the controls in place and any challenges in managing risk effectively. Without regular 
refresh, underlying risks could have changed without appropriate management oversight. 
You should decide on the appropriate frequency of the Sanctions risk assessment to maintain the 
relevance of the findings and risk mitigation programme. If the risk assessment is not conducted 
annually an explanation should be provided. 
7. KYC, CDD and EDD 
Question 
62 
Does the Entity verify the 
identity of the customer? 
Guidance 
“Verification of identity” refers to the requirement to evidence the information provided by/on 
behalf of the customer during CDD, as required. Failure to verify the identity of a customer can lead 
to unknowingly conducting business with individuals or entities who are establishing a relationship 
for purposes of conducting nefarious activities. 
Points for Consideration 
The level of verification will typically vary dependent on regulatory requirements, the customer risk 
rating, and other elements such as what type of verification (documentary/non-documentary) is 
available. Although there will be different approaches, there must be consistent documentation of 
the rationale for the level of verification. Where variances were applied, the additional steps 
taken/implemented to mitigate any additional control must be documented. 
Question 
63 
Do the Entity's policies and 
procedures set out when CDD 
must be completed, 
e.g. at the time of  onboarding 
or within 30 days? 
Guidance 
Consider not only CDD procedures/regulatory requirements. but the exceptions which may be 
applied, including the time allowed for a customer to have its profile finalised (approved) after it has 
established a relationship with the Entity, if relevant. Consider the risks for customer profiles which 
are overdue for ongoing review. A profile that is overdue for a long period of time can become a 
considerable risk to the FCC programme, as the information will not be up to date information and 
therefore will not enable the identification of risk flags which are used to determine the level of 
monitoring required. 
Points for Consideration 
Lack of policies /procedures and relevant controls to ensure due diligence is conducted in a timely 
manner exposes the Entity to the risk of conducting business with individuals or entities who are, or 
who are connected to, illicit actors. As the gateway for activity flowing to the Correspondent, any 
gaps in the Entity’s processes will result in the Respondent exposing the Correspondent to 
heightened risk. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          42  
Question 
64 
Which of the following does  
the Entity gather and retain 
when conducting CDD? Select 
all that apply: 
Guidance 
For each sub-question indicate whether your Entity documents that component as part of CDD. 
Question 
64 a 
Customer identification Guidance 
Consider the effectiveness of the controls based on customer types in identifying and verifying the 
customers adequately. 
Points for Consideration 
As noted under Question 62, the identification and verification of customers are key in order for to 
understand what risks the Entity is exposed to. Specifically, this control is critical to mitigate the risk 
that a customer is not actually who they purport to be. 
Question 
64 b 
Expected activity Guidance 
This may include volumes, types of transactions, jurisdictions to/from which transactions are likely 
to occur, Entity types, frequency, products and values. Consider the effectiveness of the processes 
to source, document and assess the expected activity of the customers against their actual activity 
at regular intervals, across the duration of the customer life cycle. Refer to the Glossary for further 
clarification. 
Points for Consideration 
Well understood and documented expected activity will support an effective transaction monitoring 
process and minimise unnecessary engagement with the customer and delay of service. In addition, 
it will support the identification of irregular patterns and type of payments/transactions.  
Question 
64 c 
Nature of 
business/employment 
Guidance 
This should include all types of revenue generating activity provided/performed by the customer. 
Points for Consideration 
In addition, it helps with the identification of high-risk activities which the customer may be 
undertaking and may give rise to a different customer profile. This information also helps with 
understanding the customer’s source of funds and transactional activity. 
Question 
64 d 
 
Ownership structure Guidance 
Refers to the full list of shareholders, intermediary entities and UBOs, including percentages of 
ownership. Consider the level of scrutiny performed on the customers’ ownership structure based 
on Entity type and customer risk rating and how efficient the processes are in identifying potential 
FC risks. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          43  
  Points for Consideration 
Ownership structures (e.g. complex) can be a key contributor to additional FC risks due to a number 
of elements, such as the jurisdictions of incorporation, the business activity or residency of 
shareholders, the identity of shareholders or key controllers, holding a senior political public 
function, sanctions nexus, higher risk activities, and source of funds from companies which are part 
of the chain of ownership. 
Question 
64 e 
Product usage Guidance 
Product Usage means the type and level (e.g. value/volume) of utilisation of products. 
Points for Consideration 
Certain products will be considered higher risk than others. Different products expose your 
organisation to different risks due to the permitted volume of transactions, currencies associated to 
them, channels utilised, complexity, among others. 
Consider the effectiveness of the processes when assessing the expected activity vs actual activity 
for each product, if applicable.  
Question 
64f 
Purpose and nature of 
relationship 
Guidance 
The reason for the establishment of the relationship and the type of relationship such as investment 
banking or private banking. 
Points for Consideration,  
The purpose of the relationship will provide a rationale for the products offered to the customer. 
Similarly, the nature of the relationship will provide context to what products the customer can 
access in your organisation. Both will help build an understanding of the potential risk the customer 
may pose to your organisation. 
Question 
64 g 
Source of funds Points for Consideration 
The customer’s source of funds may be important in enabling an understanding of certain activities 
and the FC risks they pose. The risk of not understanding the source of funds is that your Entity cannot 
reasonably determine if the funds are from a legitimate source or are consistent with the customer’s 
source of wealth. 
Refer to the Glossary for further information. 
Question 
64 h 
Source of wealth Points for Consideration 
The risk of not understanding the customer’s source of wealth is that it cannot be reasonably 
determined that their wealth has been derived from a legitimate source nor whether it is consistent 
with the business activity of the customer. While source of funds is a largely transactional 
consideration, source of wealth looks more broadly at the overall relationship and how the wealth 
was accumulated through time – especially for higher net worth individuals. 
Refer to the Glossary for further information. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          44  
Question 
65 
Are each of the following 
identified: 
For each sub-question indicate whether that information is identified as part of CDD.  
Question 
65 a 
Ultimate beneficial ownership  Points for Consideration 
Failure to identify all relevant parties that have influence and control over an organisation can lead 
to the provision of account services to illicit actors and/or parties subject to sanctions. 
Question 
65 a1 
Are ultimate beneficial 
ownership verified? 
Guidance 
This question is asking if your Entity verifies UBOs within the ownership/control threshold set by your 
Entity, e.g. 25% or more, 10% or more, etc. 
Points for Consideration 
Shareholders and UBOs may have direct influence over the operations of customers which in turn 
may introduce FC to your Entity maintaining the customer relationship. It is necessary to understand 
who these parties are and to identify relevant information about them. Depending on a number of 
elements, for example, whether they are PEPs, the UBOs may present different risks. 
Although there may be no negative connotation with these risks, your Correspondent similarly as 
part of its CDD process may need to obtain additional information on the individuals /organisations 
behind its Respondent Bank customer, to assess the risk accurately.  
To better understand the risks associated with Beneficial Ownership, refer to the FATF Guidance on 
Transparency and Beneficial Ownership. 
Consider whether the process verifies the UBO (i.e. individual), where applicable.  
Question 
65 b 
Authorised signatories (where 
applicable) 
Points for Consideration 
As noted under Questions 62 and 65 a,  failure to identify authorised signatories can lead to 
conducting business with individuals or entities who are, or who are connect to , illicit actors or are 
subject to sanctions. 
Refer to the Glossary for further information. 
Question 
65 c 
Key controllers Points for Consideration  
Failure to identify key controllers can lead to conducting business with individuals or entities who 
are, or which benefit from, illicit actors subject to sanctions. 
Question 
65 d 
Other relevant parties Guidance 
“Other relevant parties” means any other Entity or individual which otherwise holds a significant 
ownership or controlling interest in the customer, e.g. authority to act on behalf of the customer (e.g. 
trustees). 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          45  
  Points for Consideration 
As noted under Questions 65 a and 65 b, failure to identify relevant parties (who have power of 
influence and/or decision making) can lead to conducting business with individuals or entities who 
are, or who are connected to, illicit actors or subject to sanctions. 
Question 
66 
What is the Entity  ’s minimum 
(lowest) threshold applied to 
beneficial ownership 
identification? 
Guidance 
Indicate your Entity’s lowest ownership/control threshold obtained from its customers, based on 
your risk appetite and regulatory requirements. Note that if “Other (Specify the percentage)” is 
selected as an answer, you can type the percentage figure in the same text box as the drop down.  
“Lowest” refers to the ownership threshold applied to the highest risk customer rating your Entity 
implements. Typically, the higher the FC risk posed by a legal Entity customer, the more detailed will 
be the requirements necessary for understanding the legal Entity’s ownership. 
Question 
67 
Does the due diligence process 
result in customers receiving a 
risk classification? 
Guidance 
“Risk classification” refers to the customer receiving a risk score or rating when assessing potential 
FC risk exposure. 
Points for Consideration 
Failure to assign a risk rating to customers appropriately could lead to a portfolio of higher risk 
customers that exceeds your Entity risk tolerance. Also, by not adopting a risk -based approach the 
focus on higher risk customers may be limited. 
Question 
67 a 
If Y, what factors/criteria are 
used to determine the  
customer's risk classification? 
Select all that apply: 
Points for Consideration 
Risk assessment should include several factors to consider various aspects of potential FC risks 
effectively. One of the primary purposes of appropriately determining a customer's FC risk 
classification is to establish the appropriate risk profile of a customer and the corresponding level of 
due diligence required. 
Question 
68 
For high-risk non-individual 
customers, is a site visit a part 
of your KYC process? 
Guidance: 
A site visit refers to visiting the physical location of a customer’s operational business premises. The 
purpose of visits for FC risk management purposes typically includes verifying that the customer does 
in fact have location and an operational business of operation. Consideration should also be given to 
the circumstances in which it would be sufficient to perform virtual site visits where physical site visit 
may not be possible. In certain circumstances a site visit can also be used to evaluate the customer’s 
operational controls and risk management processes and establish relationships with the 
management team. It can also be used to conduct the required assessment of the customer’s 
AML/CTF and Sanctions controls in the case of Correspondent Banking relationships. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          46  
  Points for Consideration: Failure to conduct a site visit for certain higher risk customer relationship 
could lead to establishing a relationship with a shell company resulting in unknowingly onboarding 
entities that could be establishing a relationship for purposes of conducting nefarious activities, or 
which benefit from illicit actors. 
The need for site visits will typically vary dependent on regulatory requirements, the customer risk 
rating, Entity type and other elements such as what type of verification is used to confirm the 
existence of a customer’s operations. 
Question 
68 a 
If Y, is this at: Guidance 
If the answer to Question 68 is ‘YES’, indicate what prompts the site visit. 
Question 
69 a3 
Trigger Event Guidance 
The response should indicate when a site visit is conducted, at onboarding or through the life cycle 
of the customers. 
A trigger event (a FC potential risk identified during the customer life cycle) may cause an immediate 
review of the customer’s due diligence and risk rating. It may be a change in ownership, adverse 
media/negative news event, a sanctions or transaction monitoring investigation, material FC risk, a 
change in the products and services used by the customer or the customer moving domicile to 
another country, among others. 
Question 
70 
What is the method used by 
the Entity to screen for adverse 
media/negative news? 
Guidance 
Adverse Information/negative news is information that suggests that there may be reputational or 
FC risks in establishing or maintaining a relationship with a particular Entity or individual. Adverse 
information screening refers to screening of potential negative news and other negative information 
identified in relation to your Entity's customers and management of alerts generated.   
 
Question 
70  
Automated/Manual/ 
Combination 
Points for Consideration 
Methods to screen customers for adverse media/negative news must be designed to provide 
adequate coverage, review and decisioning of potential results and tailored to the customer base 
and risk profile. The method may be manual during the customer’s onboarding or review, automated 
with screening occurring on a predetermined cycle, or any combination of automated and manual. 
Failure to identify and evaluate adverse Information/negative news on customers could result in 
establishing or maintaining a relationship with an undesirable Entity or individual which may not have 
occurred had the adverse media/negative news been identified and assessed. The method of 
screening should be commensurate with the size of your Entity. 
Automated is typically achieved through a regular automated feed of data into a screening tool which 
will perform name match checks against the data and generate ‘alerts’ for bank staff to review. 
Manual is in reference to screening that is not automated. Combination is a mix of automated and 
manual. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023 Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.047  
Question 
71 
Does the Entity have a risk -
based approach to screening 
customers and  connected 
parties to determine whether 
they are PEPs, or controlled by 
PEPs? 
Points for Consideration 
Name screening, including PEP identification, can enhance the ability to assess risks associated with 
customers who are potentially higher risk as a result of the association as a PEP. Screening should be 
risk based unless local regulations determine otherwise. Also take into account that the ongoing 
nature of political changes and consider the requirements for ongoing review of customers for 
potential change in status. 
Question 
71 a 
If Y, is this at: Guidance 
If your response to Question 71 is ‘YES’, indicate when the screening occurs. 
Question 
71 a3 
Trigger event Points for Consideration 
A trigger event (a FC potential risk identified during the customer life cycle) may cause an immediate 
review of the customer’s due diligence and risk rating. It may be a change in ownership, adverse 
media/negative news event, a sanctions or transaction monitoring investigation, material FC risk, a 
change in the products and services used by the customer or the customer moving domicile to 
another country, among others. 
Question 
72 
What is the method used by 
the Entity to screen PEPs? 
Points for Consideration 
Methods to screen customers for PEP identification must be designed to provide adequate coverage, 
review and decisioning of the potential results, tailored to the customer base. 
Question 
73 
Does the Entity have policies,  
procedures and processes to 
review and escalate potential  
matches from  screening 
customers and connected  
parties to determine whether 
they are PEPs, or controlled by 
PEPs? 
Guidance 
This question is asking whether your Entity has a documented process in policies and procedures that 
sets out how an employee can disposition an alert or escalate screening hits related to PEPs and PEP 
exposure. When alerts are identified, there should be a defined clear process for escalation, 
investigation, reporting and any other action required as a consequence of the investigation 
outcome. 
Points for Consideration 
At escalation consider whether to impose additional transaction monitoring is appropriate for 
customers identified as having PEP exposure and whether a CDD review should be triggered to 
determine whether the customer’s risk rating is commensurate with the risk. 
Question 
74 
Is KYC renewed at defined 
frequencies based on risk 
rating (Periodic Reviews)? 
Points for Consideration 
Lack of processes to review and update customer information periodically can leave the Entity 
exposed to unknown changes in the customer profiles and associated risks. 
Question 
75 
Does the Entity maintain and 
report metrics on current and 
past periodic or trigger  event 
due diligence reviews? 
Guidance 
This question focuses on the governance and timely completion of periodic and trigger event 
KYC/CDD reviews of your Entity’s customers base, and the provision of MI so that Senior 
Management are made aware of control issues e.g. delays, back logs. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          48  
  Points for Consideration 
A comprehensive set of metrics including key risk indicators and key performance indicators is 
necessary to give a complete view of the KYC programme and enable your Entity to identify trends 
and areas of potential concern, including but not limited to backlogs which may lead to not 
identifying risk introduced over the course of the relationship. Metrics which provide an overview on 
previous and current, both periodic and trigger reviews, will provide the opportunity to assess 
progress, effectiveness and potential concerns related to customer due diligence reviews 
Question 
76 
From the list below, which 
categories of customers or 
industries are subject to EDD 
and/or are restricted, or 
prohibited by your Entity's FCC 
Programme? 
Guidance 
This question focuses on whether your Entity requires that certain customer types are subject to 
mandatory EDD, subject to limitations on activity that your Entity will support (“restrictions”*), or 
whether business relationships with these customer types are prohibited** due to FCC concerns. 
EDD and/or restrictions are a way to increase oversight and mitigate the potential risk of having funds 
generate from illicit origins. 
* Restricted activities are activities which your Entity has classified as ‘restricted’ due to its 
regulatory/legal requirements or limited risk appetite. Restricted activities may be acceptable by 
your Entity with additional controls in place (placed by its customer and/or by your Entity).  
** Prohibited activities refers to activities which your Entity has classified as ‘prohibited’ due to its 
regulatory/legal requirements or due to not meeting your Entity’s AML risk appetite. Prohibited 
activities are not acceptable by the Entity and may cause the customer to be rejected or exited, based 
on the Entity’s risk-based approach.  
Points of Consideration 
Certain categories of customers represent higher FC risk and should be subject to EDD. Failure to 
identify those categories of customers and perform associated EDD, may lead to an incorrect 
assessment of risk presented by a particular category of customers and ineffective monitoring. The 
Respondent should be aware that the Correspondent may have developed an acceptable risk 
appetite which may impact the acceptance of flows from certain customer categories. 
Question 
76 a 
Arms, defence, military Points for Consideration 
These customers include companies, governments, military departments and other entities which 
manufacture, sell, purchase or use weapons for either defensive or offensive purposes, including any 
intermediaries in this activity. 
Arms, defence and military goods can find their way to terrorists or sanctioned entities. Arms may 
be deemed to pose reputational risk. Defence contracts may be large and involve government 
officials which may give rise to bribery and corruption risk.  
EDD and/or restrictions are a way to increase oversight and mitigate or manage the potential risk of 
having funds passing through accounts generated from this type of activity, from illicit origins. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          49  
Question 
76 b 
Respondent Banks Points for Consideration 
Correspondent banking brings with it the risk that the account held by a respondent at a 
correspondent is used not just for the respondent ’s proprietary activity but also the activity of the 
respondent’s customers. The Correspondent will perform CDD on its customer (your Entity) but not 
on your Entity’s customers, which creates risk for the Correspondent in that activity is flowing through 
it for parties of which it may have no direct knowledge. 
Question 
76 b1 
If EDD or EDD and Restricted, 
does the EDD assessment 
contain the  elements as set 
out in the Wolfsberg 
Correspondent Banking 
Principles 
2022? 
Guidance 
For more information, refer to the Correspondent Banking Principles. 
Question 
76 c 
Embassies/Consulates Points for Consideration 
There are well publicised cases in the public domain illustrating some of the challenges posed by 
embassy banking. At a minimum, an embassy is likely to present similar risks posed by banking 
government entities in the embassy’s country, including the involvement of PEPs. There can be 
possible red flags on how the account is funded, (through personal accounts), the use of account and 
transactions processed.  
Refer to the Glossary for more information. 
Question 
76 d 
Extractive industries Points for Consideration 
Extractive industries refer to industries involved in the extraction and management of oil, gas, 
minerals, metals, coal, quarrying, precious stones and other natural resources. 
The extractive industry (e.g. mining, oil) can pose additional risks such as bribery and corruption, 
environmental damage, employee welfare, among others.  
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          50  
Question 
76 e 
Gambling customers Points for Consideration 
Gambling can be a cash intensive industry that may or may not have similar regulatory requirements 
as banks for how to handle cash and report suspicious activity. Your Entity should review its 
gambling industry customers carefully in order to develop a full understanding of their control 
environment and the risk they present. Consideration should also be given whether your Entity 
prohibits or restricts certain activities, such as unlicensed gambling business.  
Correspondent banks may take a different approach to these classifications based on their risk 
appetite. 
For more information, refer to the Glossary. 
Question 
76 f 
General Trading Companies Points for Consideration 
General trading companies trade in a multitude of commodities and may change the products they 
buy/sell or offer over time. In some cases, the changes in their business line or product offerings can 
be sudden or frequent due to market conditions, which makes it difficult to also establish a customer 
profile and determine expected activity. In addition, general trading companies can be used as front 
companies by illicit actors to disguise the illegal origin of criminal proceeds by commingling the illicit 
funds with that of the general trading company funds. 
Question 
76 g 
Marijuana-related Entities Guidance 
Consider if Marijuana and or Marijuana-related industries are allowed or not in the Correspondent’s 
jurisdiction and whether the appropriate controls exist to prevent related transactions flowing 
through that bank if required. 
Points for Consideration 
Marijuana-related business can refer to entities involved in the growing, selling and distribution of 
any form of marijuana and may also refer to related businesses that support this activity. This 
classification will vary based on the jurisdiction and the Correspondent band risk appetite.  
Question 
76 h 
 MSB/MVTS customers Points for Consideration 
MSBs and MVTSs may be subject to different regulatory requirements and/or oversight and 
supervision and, thus, may pose a different level of risk. There often is no ongoing relationship 
between the MSB/MVTS and the underlying customer, which makes monitoring for suspicious 
activity difficult. These businesses can be cash-intensive and provide services to unbanked 
individuals. Unlicensed MSBs/MVTSs present enhanced risk and are of particular concern and can be 
described using a variety of specific terms, including hawala, hundi, and fei-chen. 
Refer to the Glossary for further information. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          51  
Question 
76 i 
 
Non-account customers 
 
Points for Consideration 
Consider what categories of non-account customers your Entity may be exposed to and what risks 
they may bring. For the purposes of this question, ‘non-account customers’ refer to parties who use 
services, but do not go through an onboarding due diligence process and do not maintain an ongoing 
relationship with the bank.  
Question 
76 j 
Non-Government 
Organisations (NGOs) 
Points for Consideration 
Although the vast majority of NGOs are not utilised for illicit activities, steps need to be taken to 
identify any outliers due to the risk of NGOs, similarly to charities, being used as a front for terrorist 
activities. NGOs can also be set up as legitimate organisations that indirectly support terrorist 
activities. Understanding the nature of the entities activities is an important due diligence step. 
For more information, refer to the Glossary. 
Question 
76 k 
Non-resident customers Guidance 
Customers outside the jurisdictions in which your Entity operates can present additional risks. It is 
important to understand the commercial reasons for which a customer located in a different 
jurisdiction would need an account and the purpose of the account. All due diligence requirements 
should apply to non-resident customers. EDD may be required depending on the perceived risk. 
Question 
76 l 
Nuclear power Points for Consideration 
Nuclear power refers to a form of energy produced by a nuclear reaction, capable of producing an 
alternative source of electrical power to that supplied by coal, gas or oil. 
Nuclear power involves the risk of dual use technology (weapons) and the potential  for reputation 
risk and money laundering. EDD and/or restrictions are a way to increase oversight and mitigate the 
potential risk of having funds from illicit origins passing through accounts generated from this type 
of activity. 
Question 
76 m 
Payment Service Providers 
(PSPs) 
Points for Consideration 
By enlisting the services of a PSP, a merchant becomes less dependent on FIs to manage transactions. 
PSP customers process transactions through the accounts for their underlying customers which do 
not undergo due diligence by your Entity. Payments may also lack transparency as to the ultimate 
originators and/or beneficiaries if they are processed in bulk. Registration and licensing 
requirements may differ in various jurisdictions and an understanding of the particular requirement 
for the PSP should be undertaken. 
For more information, refer to the Glossary. 
Question 
76 n PEPs Guidance 
For more information, refer to the Wolfsberg Guidance on PEPs.  
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          52  
  Points for Consideration 
PEPs can be susceptible to corruption as a result of an elected or appointed position, which gives 
them a position of influence and power, as well as access to public funds.  
Question 
76 o 
PEP Close Associates Points for Consideration 
PEP Close Associates include PEP's widely- and publicly known close business colleagues or personal 
advisors, in particular persons acting in a financial fiduciary capacity. 
PEP close associates can be susceptible to corruption as a result of connection to a PEP. 
Question 
76 p 
PEP Related Points for Consideration 
PEP related refers to close family members of a PEP. 
PEP-related individuals (immediate family members) can be susceptible to corruption as a result of 
connection to a PEP. 
Question 
76 q 
Precious metals and stones Points for Consideration 
Criminals can use illicit funds for precious metals and stone purchases, presenting higher risk to the 
banks involved in the transactions. EDD and/or restrictions are a way to increase oversight and 
mitigate the potential risk of having funds passing through your E ntity’s accounts generated from  
this type of activity, from illicit origins. 
For more information, refer to the Glossary. 
Question 
76 r 
Red light businesses/Adult 
entertainment 
Points for Consideration 
In most jurisdictions,  “red light” business and adult entertainment are considered a high-risk industry 
for FC. From the welfare of the people in the business to the source of funds, the potential for illicit 
funds to be processed through this industry is high. Additionally, human trafficking activities are also 
associated with this industry. “Red light” business/adult entertainment is also known for being cash-
intensive, adding additional traceability risks. If your Entit y has such customers, consider if the EDD 
and restrictions capabilities are sufficient to mitigate such risks. This type of business can expose both 
the Correspondent and Respondent to a number of FC risks, in addition to be often a cash-based and 
unlicensed/unregulated activity. Potential reputation risk is also an additional concern which requires 
controls to mitigate it. 
For more information, refer to the Glossary. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          53  
Question 
76 s 
Regulated charities Points for Consideration 
Regulated charities pose less FC risks than unregulated charities. However, they still can present risks 
if the contributors are unknown entities and if the recipients are in locations with less stringent FC 
controls. EDD and/or restrictions are a way to i ncrease oversight and  mitigate the potential risk of 
having funds passing through accounts generated from this type of activity (i.e.  illicit origins). 
Understanding the nature of the entities activities is an important due diligence step. Although the 
vast majority of charities are not utilised for illicit activities, steps need to be taken to identify any 
outliers. 
For more information, refer to the Glossary. 
Question 
76 t 
Shell banks Points for Consideration 
Shell banks have been found to be used to facilitate FC as there is no regulatory oversight due to 
lack of any physical presence. Doing business with shell banks is prohibited in most jurisdictions. 
For more details, refer to the Glossary and FATF Recommendation 13.  
Question 
76 u 
Travel and Tour Companies Points for Consideration 
Travel and tour companies present the risk of being used to pay for travel and travel-related expenses 
with illicit funds. 
Question 
76 v 
Unregulated charities Points for Consideration 
Unregulated charities may not be subject to any government/self-regulatory organisation oversight, 
making them an easy target for transfer of illicit proceeds. EDD and/or restrictions  are a way to 
increase oversight and mitigate the potential risk of having funds passing through your Entity’s  
accounts generated from this type of activity (i.e. illicit origins). It is important to understand under 
what circumstances charities are required to be regulated in order to determine whether a charity 
that is a customer is properly constituted. Additionally, the jurisdiction of operation may also impact 
the risk profile of the charity. 
Question 
76 w 
Used Car Dealers Points for Consideration 
It is a known typology that criminal enterprises often purchase cars and then resell them for clean 
money. Used-car dealerships can be the preferred route to engage with and may therefore be 
susceptible to money laundering by criminals that buy used cars (often with cash) as a way to launder 
illicit money. In some jurisdictions, used car dealership may not be subject to any regulations or cash 
transaction reporting requirements.  
Question 
76 x 
Virtual Asset Service 
Providers  
Points for Consideration 
Virtual currencies may lack transparency into the parties involved and/or may have been used for FC. 
The virtual currency space is a rapidly evolving area with varying levels of regulatory oversight and 
considerable adverse media/negative news about use by illicit actors. 
For more information, refer to the Glossary. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          54  
Question 
77 
If restricted, provide details of 
the restriction. 
Guidance 
Your Entity chooses to limit the types of business it will do with particular customers. Effective 
monitoring of such restrictions and documentation of the controls related to the restriction is 
essential to demonstrate the effectiveness of the controls. 
An example of a restriction might be the provision of clearing services for proprietary payments but not 
third-party payments. 
Question 
78 
Does EDD require senior 
business management and/or 
compliance approval? 
Guidance 
This question refers to a documented process as part of the bank’s EDD process which requires that 
senior business management and/or compliance approval is required in order to establish or 
continue (for existing customers) a business relationship with certain categories of high-risk customer 
(as defined by the bank’s risk appetite and/or standards). 
Points for Consideration 
What constitutes senior business management will depend on the size, structure, and nature of the 
FI. However, the objective is to ensure that more senior-level management individuals are aware and 
accept the relationships with certain categories of higher-risk customers as part of the EDD process. 
Question 
79 
Does the Entity have specific 
procedures for onboarding 
entities that handle customer 
money, such as lawyers, 
accountants, consultants, real 
estate agents? 
Points for Consideration 
Professional service provider accounts allow for ongoing business transactions with multiple 
customers and your Entity does not have a direct relationship with , or knowledge of, the beneficial 
owners of these types of accounts, which may be a constantly changing group of individuals and legal 
entities. 
As with any account that presents third -party risk, the bank could be more vulnerable to potential 
money laundering abuse. Some potential examples of abuse could include laundering illicit currency, 
structuring currency deposits and withdrawals, and opening any third-party account for the primary 
purpose of masking the underlying customer’s identity. 
Question 
80 
Does the Entity per form an 
additional control or quality 
review on customers subject to 
EDD? 
Guidance  
If the response is ‘YES’, relating to additional controls, please provide information in Question 82. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          55  
8. Monitoring & Reporting 
Question 
83 
Does the Entity have risk-
based policies, procedures 
and monitoring processes for 
the identification and  
reporting of suspicious  
activity? 
Guidance 
Your Entity shall have in place procedures and controls compliant with the AML/CTF regulations to 
mitigate and effectively manage the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing that your Entity 
faces as well as the money laundering and terrorist fin ancing red flags relevant for you r Entity and 
the industry sector. 
A risk-based approach allows to prioritise resources on areas of higher AML/CTF risk identified. 
Points for Consideration 
Lack of policies and procedures could lead to inconsistent practices and failure to meet regulatory 
reporting requirements. 
Question 
84 
What is the method used by 
the Entity to monitor  
transactions for suspicious 
activities? 
 
Guidance 
The method of monitoring transactions for suspicious activity should be commensurate with the type 
and volume of transactions undertaken, in order to mitigate money laundering risks effectively. 
Points for Consideration 
Automated solutions will be most suitable for high-volume activities while manual monitoring may 
suffice for lower volumes and/or in situations where it may be difficult to load all relevant data into 
an automated system, e.g. monitoring of documentary letter of credit activity. Regardless of whether 
or not an automated system is used, human vigilance remains fundamental. 
Continuous assessment of existing manual transaction monitoring process is important, and 
consideration should be given to their effectiveness versus the risk they pose.  
Question 
84 a 
If manual or combination 
selected, specify what type of 
transactions are  monitored 
manually 
Guidance 
Provide further information on the use of manual monitoring. 
Question 
84 b 
If automated  or combination 
selected, are internal system 
or vendor-sourced tools 
used?  
 
Points for Consideration 
Where a vendor-sourced or internal solution is used, your Entity should assess its adaptability to 
cover its activities and the AML/CTF risks involved, the frequency of updates, and the limitations. The 
flexibility and scalability of a solution is of utmost importance, as the underlying risks surrounding 
transaction monitoring are evolving. Additionally, it is important to be able to create an audit trail to 
have a clear understanding of the selected solution, and potentially to show to the relevant 
authorities. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          56  
Question 
84 b2   
When was the tool last 
updated?  
• < 1 year 
• 1-2 years 
• Other - Please explain  in 
Question 91 
Guidance 
Effective monitoring requires regular review and updating of the parameters or criteria used to 
generate monitoring reports or issue alerts. Regular assessment of effectiveness should also be made 
to your Entity’s transaction monitoring system (including vendor updates) to take into account 
changes in business operations and developments in money laundering and terrorist financing 
methods (new scenarios). Any enhancements to the system should be properly documented. 
Points for Consideration 
Insufficient updates may prevent detection of new money laundering or financing trends. 
Question 
84 b3 
When was the automated 
Transaction Monitoring 
application last calibrated?  
• Within the last year 
• Within the past 2 years 
• Other - Please explain  (in 
Question 91) 
Guidance  
FIs need to review and customise, if relevant, the parameters and thresholds in relation to the level 
of activity of the customers and cannot use an off- the-shelf calibration. A methodology and an audit 
trail of the changes in the tuning should be maintained and approved by the MLRO in order to be 
potentially presented to the competent authorities. 
Points for Consideration 
Transaction monitoring systems should be tuned regularly to adjust thresholds to the evolving 
transactional activity and take into account historical alerts and Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs). 
FIs should periodically review, test, and refine their transaction monitoring rules to ensure they 
remain current and effective in targeting riskier transactions, behaviours and new AML/CTF trends.  
Question 
85 
Does the Entity have regulatory 
requirements to report 
suspicious transactions? 
Points for Consideration 
Local regulatory authorities are expected to implement FATF Recommendation 20 (and its 
interpretative notice). 
Question 
85 a 
If Y, does the Entity have 
policies, procedures and  
processes to  comply with 
suspicious reporting 
requirements? 
Guidance 
Those procedures should define the process and criteria to report a suspicion as well as the timing of 
the SAR filing and its content. Controls should be applied to detect and remediate potential breaches. 
Question 86 
 
 
Does the Entity have policies, 
procedures and  processes to 
review and  escalate matters 
arising from the monitoring of  
customer transactions and 
activity? 
Guidance 
These policies should describe what escalation action to take when customer is subject to a SAR in 
order to prevent the repetition of suspicious transaction. Consider the method of escalation, audit 
trail, quality of the review of escalations and decisioning. The MLRO should be informed of the 
AML/CTF incidents relating to the transaction monitoring in order to ensure that remedial measures 
are taken. This understanding will demonstrate the efficiency/effectiveness of how your Entity 
manages the monitoring of customer activity. Policies and procedures should ensure senior 
management visibility of escalation volume and backlog to ensure compliance with local law. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          57  
Question 
87 
Does the Entity have a data 
quality management 
programme to ensure that 
complete data for all 
transactions are subject to 
monitoring? 
Guidance 
Data quality is a prerequisite for the sound functioning of the transaction monitoring systems. Your 
Entity should periodically review the completeness and validity of data used in its transaction 
monitoring systems – for instance, through the performance of data integrity checks to ensure that 
data is being completely and accurately captured in the source systems and transmitted to its 
transaction monitoring systems.  
Appropriate controls or periodical reviews should be conducted to identify abnormally functioning 
transaction monitoring rules or scenarios (abnormal volume variation on transactions and alerts) and 
ensure that any such irregularities caused by data integrity issues are properly remediated. 
Points for Consideration 
Any irregularities could lead to let illicit activity going unidentified with no surveillance and 
consequently end at being unable to issue SAR when appropriate. 
Question 88 
 
 
 
Does the Entity have processes 
in place to respond to Request 
For Information (RFI) from 
other entities in a timely 
manner? 
Guidance 
Consider the processes and standards in place to support incoming RFIs. Also consider how such 
inquiries are treated – can they also be used as a prompt to initiate investigation into the underlying 
activity/customer by your Entity? 
Points for Consideration 
The provision of additional information in response to RFIs sent to Entity by other banks supports the 
investigation processes of other institutions and serves to demonstrate the quality of the control 
processes of the recipient of the RFI. Delays in responding to RFIs from the Correspondent may affect 
how the Correspondent views the effectiveness of your Entity’s FC programme. 
Question 89 
 
 
Does the Entity have processes 
in place to send Requests for 
Information (RFIs) to their 
customers in a timely manner? 
Guidance 
In the case of missing information or determining the payment purpose, an RFI ensures that the front-
office team asks the right questions to gain more clarity on the transactions. An RFI process ensures 
that the investigations teams reach the correct recipient and track the response receipt within a 
certain time limit. 
Points for Consideration 
Delay in sending RFIs or lack of control on the RFI response time could lengthen the time required to 
report suspicious activities and potentially breach regulatory deadline for reporting. Lack of RFI 
process for timely responses could lead to reporting of suspicious activity that could have been 
explained with additional information. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          58  
9. Payment Transparency 
Question 
92 
Does the Entity adhere to the  
Wolfsberg Group Payment 
Transparency Standards? 
Guidance 
Refer to the Wolfsberg Payment Transparency Message Standards publication. 
Points for Consideration 
Use of incorrect message formats and/or not including full/accurate payment information will 
compromise an Entity’s own sanctions screening and transaction monitoring processes as well as 
those of all the other banks in the payment chain. 
Your Entity should evaluate all payment processing standards, across all products and locations, to 
determine adherence to the standards. A formally documented evaluation or gap analysis, as well as 
testing where required, would serve to substantiate consistency with the standards. 
Question 
93 
Does the Entity have policies, 
procedures and  processes to 
comply with and have controls 
in place to ensure compliance 
with: 
Guidance 
Policies, procedures and processes should be documented, communicated to and be accessible to 
relevant staff. 
Question 
93 a 
FATF Recommendation 16 Guidance 
Refer to the Glossary for further information on FATF Recommendation 16. 
Points for Consideration 
Although FATF Recommendations are not regulatory requirements, Correspondents may wish to 
see that controls in place to monitor for, and enforce, FATF Recommendation 16 on wire transfers.  
Question 
93 b 
Local Regulations Guidance 
There should be a process for ensuring that your E ntity is aware of local regulatory standards for  
payment transparency and any changes that occur, and that it should have processes and procedures 
to comply with those standards. 
Question 
93 c 
If N, explain. Guidance 
If there are no such policies and procedures, as described above, to comply in any respect with these 
standards, consideration must be given  to the extent of any deviation and E ntity’s ability to collect 
the necessary payment information. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          59  
Question 
94 
Does the Entity have controls to 
support the inclusion of 
required and accurate 
originator information in cross -
border payment messages? 
Guidance 
Consider documented processes to ensure that they require the complete set of originator 
information and whether the originator information provided in cross -border payment messages is 
consistent with the information about the customer as verified as part of the CDD process. 
Points for Consideration 
Information should not be truncated, in all possible  situations. Truncation means that not all data 
received is included in the outgoing messages, either because the message fields do not allow for a 
sufficient number of characters, or the complete information is not provided at the initiation of the 
transaction. The inclusion of complete and accurate originator information in payment messages is 
required to support the effective execution of transaction monitoring and sanctions screening control 
processes. 
Question 
95 
Does the Entity have controls 
to support the inclusion of 
required beneficiary 
information cross -border 
payment messages?  
Guidance 
There should be control processes to ensure that payment originators are providing full information 
in all possible situations and that beneficiary information supplied by the customer is not 
meaningless. Whereas beneficiary information may be more difficult to source than originator 
information, the bank should have a defined approach for obtaining it. 
Also consider what system controls are in place at your Entity to prevent wire transfers from being 
executed/released without required beneficiary information , or beneficiar y information that is 
clearly meaningless, when your Entity is acting as the Ordering FI. 
Points for Consideration 
The inclusion of required beneficiary information in payment messages further supports the effective 
execution of transaction monitoring and screening control processes. 
10. Sanctions 
Question 
98 
Does the Entity have a 
Sanctions Policy approved  by 
management regarding 
compliance with sanctions 
law applicable to the Entity, 
including with respect to its 
business conducted with, or 
through accounts  held at 
foreign financial institutions? 
Guidance 
Your Entity should have a policy which covers the compliance with all sanctions laws applicable to 
your Entity. 
Points for Consideration 
Consider compliance with all relevant Sanctions lists and how additional controls may need to be 
implemented  where your Entity are not required to do so (but the Correspondent is). Consider how 
to ensure compliance with the sanctions obligations of the Correspondent. A clear policy and senior 
management commitment to comply with sanctions laws provide all compliance requirements to 
your Entity’s employees. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          60  
Question 
99 
Does the Entity have  policies, 
procedures, or  other controls 
reasonably designed to  
prevent the use  of another 
entity’s accounts or services in 
a manner  causing the other 
entity to violate sanctions  
prohibitions applicable to the 
other entity (including 
prohibitions within the 
other entity's local 
jurisdiction)?  
Points for Consideration  
Sanctions often differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. As a result, it is important to understand both 
the sanctions laws of the jurisdictions in which your Entity operates and those in which it maintains 
its accounts to avoid transacting through those accounts for parties or jurisdictions that would violate 
the Correspondent’s regulatory requirements. Failure to do so can lead to blocked/frozen 
transactions and potential violations for your Entity and the Correspondent. 
Question 
100 
Does the Entity have 
policies, procedures or other 
controls reasonably designed 
to prohibit and/or detect 
actions taken  to evade 
applicable sanctions  
prohibitions, such as  
stripping, or the resubmission 
and/or masking, of sanctions  
relevant information in cross-
border transactions? 
Guidance 
Ensure that policies and procedures include controls to detect customers seeking to evade sanctions.  
Points for Consideration 
Parties may attempt to submit payments masking/removing prohibited names or jurisdictions to 
evade sanctions. This may occur by the customer purposefully not supplying full details in payment 
transactions or by re-submitting transactions that were previously blocked/frozen or rejected with 
the sanctioned references eliminated or masked. Failure to develop controls to identify this 
behaviour can put both your Entity and the Correspondent at risk of violations. Consider not only 
what controls are in place, but also their effectiveness.  
Question 
101 
Does the Entity screen its  
customers, including  
beneficial ownership  
information collected by the 
Entity, during onboarding and 
regularly thereafter  against 
Sanctions Lists? 
Guidance 
Sanctions laws and lists of sanctioned entities, individuals or jurisdictions can be subject to frequent 
change. As such, it is important that all relevant data is collected and screened on a continuing basis. 
Points for Consideration 
Some regulations specify that a legal Entity that is not listed directly as a sanctioned target is 
considered  a sanctioned target if 50% or more of it is owned by a beneficial owner that is directly 
sanctioned. Similarly, some jurisdictions may consider an Entity to be sanctioned if one or more of 
its controlling parties is a sanctioned target.  
For more information, refer to the Wolfsberg Guidance on Sanctions Screening. 
Question 
102 
What is the method used by 
the Entity for sanctions 
screening? 
Guidance 
The method of screening customers against sanctions lists should be commensurate with the type 
and volume of customers in order to mitigate sanctions violations.  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          61  
 Points for Consideration 
Automated screening is most appropriate for large volumes of customers, while manual processes 
may suffice for lower volumes. Manual processes may also be suited for tasks that do not lend 
themselves easily to automation, e.g. documentary trade finance. The methodology should be re-
assessed as your Entity’s business evolves and the FC risks change.  
For more information, refer to the Wolfsberg Guidance on Sanctions Screening. 
Question 
103 
Does the Entity screen all 
sanctions relevant data, 
including at a minimum, Entity 
and location  information, 
contained in cross border 
transactions against Sanctions 
Lists? 
Points for Consideration 
References to sanctioned entities/related parties/jurisdictions can occur in any field in a transaction, 
including free text fields. Incomplete screening can result in failure to identify a transaction with 
reference to a sanctioned Entity or jurisdiction. 
Question 
104 
What is the method used by the 
Entity? 
Guidance 
Similar to customer screening, the method for transaction screening should be commensurate with 
the volume of transactions processed. 
Automated screening should be used for products t hat generate a large number of transactions and 
multiple fields of information.  
Question 
105 
Does the Entity have a data 
quality management 
programme to ensure that 
complete data for all 
transactions are subject to 
sanctions screening? 
Guidance 
Effective sanctions screening is dependent on quality data management processes. Does the 
organisation have sufficient processes to have effective screening? 
Points for Consideration 
In order to ensure that your Entity is in compliance with sancti ons laws, all data sources must be 
accurate and complete. A robust quality data management programme should be designed to ensure 
all relevant data is available for screening. 
Question 
106 
Select the Sanctions Lists  used 
by the Entity in its sanctions 
screening processes: 
Guidance 
As stated in Question 98, in order to mitigate the risk of a sanctions violation by the organisation and 
in the regulatory jurisdiction of the Correspondent, it is important to understand and be explicit as to 
which sanctions lists are being used for sanctions screening purposes. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          62  
Points for Consideration 
It is a good practice to use broadly adopted sanctions lists (e.g. OFAC, UN, EU, HMT, among others) to 
identify any potential sanctioned entities. This should be done in addition to any local jurisdictional 
lists as well as the applicable list(s) used by the Correspondent. There may be differences between 
the sanctions regulations that are applicable to your E ntity (as Respondent) and those that are 
applicable to the Correspondent. Through the due diligence process, your E ntity should seek to 
understand any such differences to ensure that it meets the Correspondent’s expectations. 
Question 
107 
When regulatory authorities 
make updates to their  
Sanctions list, how many  
business days before the Entity 
updates their active  manual 
and/or automated  screening 
systems against: 
Guidance 
Indicate for each category the timeframe within which internal sanctions lists are updated.  
Points for Consideration  
Sanctions lists which are not kept current or experience delays in updates into the screening systems 
can expose both your Entity and the Correspondent to the risk of processing transactions in violation 
of sanctions laws. A sustainable process must be implemented which allows the identification of 
updated lists, with a defined time frame and process flow on how to have the lists updated across the 
organisation. 
Question 
108 
Does the Entity have a physical 
presence, e.g. branches, 
subsidiaries, or representative 
offices located in 
countries/regions against 
which UN, OFAC, OFSI, EU and 
G7 membe r countries have 
enacted comprehensive 
jurisdiction-based Sanctions? 
Guidance 
Comprehensive Sanctions Programmes – Known as Sensitive Sanctioned Countries (SSCs). This is 
where almost all (barring licenced) activity is prohibited with the country. 
Answer ‘YES’ if your Entity has a physical presence in any country which is included in any of the 
Sanctions Lists. 
Points for Consideration 
If your E ntity has a physical presence in any sanctioned country or jurisdiction, this will present 
heightened risk to the Correspondent. The risk is that funds from branches or businesses based or 
sourced from sanctioned countries or jurisdictions may pass through the Correspondent. If this 
occurs, the Correspondent will have to report, block/freeze or reject the activity. 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          63  
11. Training & Education 
Question 
111 
Does the Entity provide 
mandatory training, which 
includes: 
Points for Consideration 
Without a core commitment from the organisation and senior management on training that is fit for 
purpose, deployed on a regular basis and of true  benefit to those undertaking it, there  is a 
considerable risk that the FCC programme will not be able to be implemented effectively. 
Adequate tra ining of management and staff on a regular basis is required to ensure a sound 
understanding of money laundering , terrorist financing  and Sanctions risks, and the bank ’s FCC 
programme. Questions 11 1 a-f refer to  specific training topics which contribute to  making the 
training programme comprehensive, relevant and effective. 
Question 
111 a 
Identification and reporting of 
transactions to government 
authorities 
Guidance 
This question focuses on both systematic regulatory transactional reporting obligations and 
suspicious activity reporting. 
Question 
111 b 
Examples of different forms of 
money laundering, terrorist 
financing and sanctions 
violations relevant for the types 
of products and services 
offered 
Points for Consideration 
An impactful training programme should include case studies, examples of risks your E ntity has 
identified based on its customers, products, business types and geographic exposures in order to have 
employees realise that the risks are real rather than theoretical. 
Question 
111 d 
New issues that occur in the 
market, e.g. significant 
regulatory actions or new 
regulations 
Points for Consideration 
Without regular and relevant updates to training material, staff may not be aware of emerging 
typologies, risks or control standards. 
Question 
111 e 
Conduct and Culture Points for Consideration 
Conduct and Culture in this context refers to regulatory requirements and institutional standards 
around behaviour from a FC risk management perspective. 
Question 
111 f 
Fraud  Guidance 
A training programme should include fraud-related case studies and risks identified in the Institution 
in order to provide employees with information on potential scenarios related to internal and 
external fraud. 
Question 
112  
Is the above mandatory 
training provided to: 
Guidance 
Training should be provided to all functions that have a role within the overall AML, CTF and 
Sanctions programme of the bank. This would include  contractors/consultants and all roles 
mentioned below. Consider how the training can be tailored to the roles mentioned so that it is 
relevant and practical to employee’s responsibilities. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          64  
Question 
112 a 
Board and Senior Committee 
Management 
Guidance 
The Board, or other Senior Management Committee, is respons ible for ensuring the effective 
implementation of, and adherence to, the AML, CTF and Sanctions programme. To be able to execute 
this, they must receive an appropriate level of training. 
Question 
112 e and f 
Third parties to which 
specific FCC activities 
have been outsourced 
and non-employed 
workers 
(contractors/consultant)  
Guidance 
Answer “Yes” if your Entity provides training to the third party performing FCC activities on your 
behalf or if your Entity has oversight of the third party’s training progr amme for FCC and is 
comfortable that it complies with your Entity’s requirements. 
Points for Consideration 
If your Entity depends on any third parties to deliver parts of its AML, CTF or Sanctions programme, 
these third parties should be subject to the same standards of training as internal resources. 
Question 
113 
 
Does the Entity provide 
AML, CTF & Sanctions 
training that is targeted to 
specific roles, 
responsibilities and high-
risk products, services and 
activities? 
Points for Consideration 
AML, CTF and Sanctions are broad and complex disciplines and staff in key roles should receive more 
targeted training to focus on higher-risk and more specialised areas of the programme. 
Question 
114 
Does the Entity provide 
customised training for AML, 
CTF and Sanctions staff? 
Guidance 
AML and Sanctions staff includes all full-time employees, as well as contractors and temporary staff, 
from both the first and second Line of Defence (refer to the Glossary for further information). 
“Customised” refers to a training programme tailored to the role and responsibilities that the 
employee undertakes. 
Points for Consideration 
Training will generally be more effective if it is targeted at the audience, in terms of relevance of 
content and level. A single universal set of training may not be appropriate for all staff in the bank and 
a more effective approach is to adopt a more targeted and customised training perspective either by 
business unit or function, or by risk area (e.g. specific trainings on, ABC, CTF, Sanctions screening, etc.). 
  

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          65  
12. Quality Assurance/Compliance Testing 
Question 
117 
Does the Entity have a 
programme-wide risk-based 
Quality Assurance programme 
for financial crime (separate 
from the independent Audit 
function)  
Points for Consideration 
Failure to ensure quality records relating to CDD and other KYC processes can lead to incomplete or 
inaccurate records, which may result in customers that exceed the risk appetite. Processes to assess 
the quality of those processes help mitigate that risk. 
Question 
118 
Does the Entity have a 
programme-wide risk-based 
Compliance Testing process 
(separate from the 
independent Audit function)? 
Points for Consideration 
It is important that the organisation has a compliance testing programme looking at FC controls across 
all functions which discharge FCC responsibilities, ensuring consistent oversight and identification of 
potential gaps in the programme. 
13. Audit 
Question 
121 
In addition to inspections by the 
government 
supervisors/regulators, does 
the Entity have an internal 
audit function, a testing 
function or other independent 
third party, or both, that 
assesses FCC AML, CTF, ABC, 
Fraud and Sanctions policies 
and practices on a regular 
basis? 
Guidance 
An independent party should have the responsibility to examine and evaluate the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the policies, controls and procedures comply with the requirements of the  applicable 
regulations, make recommendations in relation to those polic ies, controls and procedures, and 
monitor compliance with those recommendations. 
Points for Consideration 
Independent audit and testing of the FCC programme is an industry best practice and, in many cases, 
is a regulatory requirement. Independent audit should be designed to ensure that there is credible 
challenge to how the  programme is working in order to assess its effectiveness. This independent 
review is necessary to avoid any bias in assessing whether the programme is. 
Question 
122 
How often is the Entity audited 
on its AML, CTF, ABC, Fraud and 
Sanctions programme by the 
following: 
Points for Consideration 
The selection “Via component-based reviews” refers to reviews focusing on a theme (also known as 
thematic reviews) or on a specific function. 
Frequent reviews from independent sources provide an assessment of the effectiveness of the 
programme. 
Question 
123 
Does the internal audit function 
or other independent third 
party cover the following areas: 
Guidance 
Indicate which areas are covered by the internal audit/independent assessments. 

© The Wolfsberg Group 2023                               Wolfsberg CBDDQ Guidance v2.0                          66  
Question 
124 
Are adverse findings from 
internal and external audit 
tracked to completion and 
assessed for adequacy and 
completeness? 
Points for Consideration  
It is important to have adequate processes to track any identified findings to ensure completeness 
and validation of remediation. Lack of such processes may lead to an ineffective FC programme and 
potential regulatory concerns. 
14. Fraud 
Question 
127 
Does the Entity have policies in 
place addressing fraud risk? 
Guidance 
Your Entity should have a governance framework around “How to manage Fraud Risks?”. This could 
be achieved either in a dedicated Anti-Fraud Policy or by inclusion into other policies, such as 
Compliance, Misconduct or Corporate Security. The policy should cover at least the definition of 
Fraud, Applicability of the Policy, Roles and Responsibilities (including Obligations) and Escalation 
Paths. 
Question 
128 
Does the Entity have a 
dedicated team responsible for 
preventing and detecting 
fraud? 
Guidance 
It is important that resources are aligned not only for handling fraud events (investigations) but also 
to have teams allocated to a more holistic Fraud Prevention and Fraud Detection framework. 
Question 
129 
Does the Entity have real time 
monitoring to detect fraud? 
Guidance 
It is important that payment/transaction-based fraud is being monitored in real time to detect 
fraudulent patterns/behaviour enabling your Entity to interdict these transactions before processing 
them. 
Question 
130 
Do the Entity’s processes 
include gathering additional 
information to support its fraud 
controls, for example, IP 
address, GPS location and/or 
device ID? 
Guidance 
It is important that fraud monitoring systems use all available data to identify potential fraudulent 
transactions before processing them. Examples include, but are not limited to, transactional data 
(amount, date, IP address, device ID, authentication method) and non-transactional data (customer 
data, industry, location) as well as watchlists (internal/external).